ideology and the reality this book is based on total hypes. It's sad that so many people nowadays try to change this  nation into communist or socialism ( same role, just different name) not really knowing the truth, just based on some political ideology that human history had repeatedly  proved to be failed.  In fact communism is the worst political system that ever presented on earth.1989, Tinamen square, a million chines college students marched to protest against their communist government of oppression: it was broadcasted all over the world, they were asking communist government to give them ;freedom for speech, media, business, religion, true-democracy( not like few communist party people controlling) by election. Sooner the communist government sent them tanks and guns and indiscriminately shoot them and ran over with tank. Whole world watched through television broadcast.Now some ignorant Americans already forgot about this just 20 years ago's brutality that we watched with our own eyes, want to change this great nation into communist?Because of its brutality, I escaped from that regime. And I  am happy to be in this country where human freedom is mostly respected, and protected. Communist lies saying every one shares equally: In fact only, those few comrades who caused the shift of power enjoy the wealth and power, but the rest of the general citizens have no equality nor basic human right. Any one speak against government---disappear next day to "concentration camp" w/o fair trials nor justice. Communist shut down all religious freedom, or freedom of speech ( all medias are government controlled) Communists deny any form of gods but instead, they set the status of Stalin or Ma chiding, or Kimjung ill, and have to sing songs and salute for them, worship them.  From elementary children to elders... Anyone dares to go against the government, ---labor camp!  Several millions who stand  for their freedom were killed brutally  in early 20th century, during the communism overturn. ,Research the communism nations' history. All the nations turned into  communism fall into worst human rights and economic state from their establishment. Any communist countries in the history ever get better as decades go by?China is the only seemingly doing well now. Why? because from 10 years ago, they realized communism was failed with extreme poverty, started to adapting the partial capitalism into their system-free competitive capitalism. That's the reality people. Stalin communist government killed 90 millions including the vicinity nations that were turn into communism, Macho-tong communist killed 100 millions, 2 millions by North Korea, by Cambodia each, 2 millions in Africa, 200,000 latin America..so on . But most of all they all became terribly poor after communist regime,oppressing the free capitalism, except China, because they started to adapt the partial capitalism from 10 years ago after they realized the harsh economic state. Now history tells also other evil regime; Hitler killed 6 million jew with other 4 million of Europeans; Japan' imperialism killed 20 million Asians during WWII, ..so on.Men can't govern themselves. They always proved to be failed again and again throughout the history. If USA turned into communism, the power will shift  to only those who hate the existing American system. They  secretly controlling communicast-medias ( I already see it happened ) and brainwashing the youth with distorted  facts in textbooks  last 20 years. They keep change their names, their activity, and theory. Why? if they openly speak up, they know they will fail because any normal mind people will see the deception and its perversion. Look at these behind scene head members:They are  mostly angry people with extreme hatred. Before you get associate with these kinds, study the actual communism history and the result of those countries over last 100 years.  then you might understand why people escape from those communist countries despite the danger of their lives, come to USA.  Americans seem so ignorant ,  don't even  know what kind of freedom or dreams that anyone can pursue if they want. I can't believe how americans are lazy and stupid (sorry for my expression) not protecting their precious freedom and the wealth that whole world envy. Pretty sad to see this great nation is stumbling by the smooth, deceitful talking,  present government and together with mostly blinded, deceivedmajority. My last word: America wake up and protect what your forefathers gave to you. Don't get robbed by those haters of your wealth and power. If America had been  the most wealthy and liberal nation in the whole world so far, doesn't it already proved what you have is the best national  system already?Do you have to be a rocket scientist to see this simple truth? Don't be deceived