America is still trying to interfere with China Mr. Bradley shed light on aspects of American involvement in Asia and particularly China from American perspective that I knew something about but not to the degree which he described. For that I am very grateful. America’s continuing interference in China is today’s greatest challenge between China and America. As a Chinese-American I am concerned. In the days of Roosevelts the attempt was both to Christianize and Americanize China as Mr. Bradley said. Even today America accuses China of religious persecution stating that Christians are forced to practice their religion underground. China is not a Christian nation. It has its own religion which is a combination of Buddhism, Confucian philosophy and ancestral worship. The history of Christian involvement in China coinciding with military invasion is still too raw in China.It does not surprise me that FDR’s maternal grandfather Warren Delano made his fortune not just trading tea and porcelain but mostly in opium. He left FDR’s mother a fortune equivalent in value to a billion in today’s term. You could say he was the El Chapo of his days. But the Brits were far worse. They invaded China twice in the so called Opium Wars.One thing I gave FDR credit was, unlike the racist Churchill, he wanted China to be one of the major powers after WWII. Churchill and other European countries wanted to regain their former colonies and continue to enslave Asians. While Korea gained its independence from Japan it was immediately divided by big powers to this day. Philippines did not gain its independence until 1946 with a series of puppets. Malaya was not freed until 1957. And Hong Kong was only returned to China in 1997. France which collaborated with the Japanese tried to overthrow the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. Its first president Ho Chi Minh was supported by OSS when he was fighting the Japanese. France then installed another puppet and ultimately led to the costly Vietnam War.A few complaints: The author should correct the fact that Charlie Soong actually had three daughters and three sons, not one. I should know as I worked with T.V. Soong’s son in law. This is a minor point. What is more troublesome is his mistake stating that the Japanese sneak attack on the Russian Pacific Fleet took place in Korea. It was at Port Arthur, in present day Dalian, in China. Russians and Japanese fought on Chinese land with Chinese civilians suffered the consequences.