Slightly Slanted View of US China Relationship SPOILER ALERT.  THE CENTRAL BOMBSHELL OF THE BOOK IS DISCLOSED HEREINAFTER.  The author is a wonderful and engaging writer.  His research disclosed a terrific secret about how the US stumbled into WWII with Japan because of our long warped interaction with China.  Our involvement began in earnest when several founders of some of our richest families made their initial fortunes through the China opium trade.  That seed money, which was in fantastic amounts, was intelligently increased with sharp investments that soon separated them from any criminal activity.  They were fantastically rich and powerful.  Along the way, while the powerful founders were in China plying their trade, they made close friends of several Chinese missionaries who convinced them China could be western and Christian.  The rich men began to support the missionaries in China and sponsor campaigns in the US and UK to further the efforts to westernize and convert to Christianity most of China.These efforts devolved into a string of deceptions about China being much like the west.  A powerful China lobby grew into a machine having huge impacts on American opinion.  After numerous other misadventures, this lobby began pushing for the US to go to war with Japan after Japan invaded China.STOP READING HERE IF YOU WANT TO DISCOVER THE FOLLOWING SECRETS FOR YOURSELF.During the Roosevelt Administration a split developed between his most powerful departments.  The Secretary of State and the US President both wanted to avoid war with Japan and wanted to keep selling oil and raw materials to Japan, which they would use against the Chinese.  Without the oil Japan’s military could not continue to fight Chiang in China.  Several other cabinet secretaries and members of the Federal bureaucracy wanted to support China and wanted to cut off American, and other sources of oil, to Japan.  The Secretary of State and the President were certain that cutting off the oil to Japan would lead to a Japanese attack on America and the Dutch and the UK.  Japan would secure the oil by force if the west stopped selling it to them, the Secretary and President were sure.The opposition in the cabinet had been convinced by the China lobby that Japan would not even contemplate an attack on the US.  The China lobby, which included Madam Chiang and powerful elites in the US, took steps behind Roosevelt’s back to cut off the oil.  They altered important documents, alterations found by the President’s attorney and reported to him, and then rearranged  key bureaucratic committees that eventually stopped the oil from getting to Japan.  After the oil was cut off, Japan attacked the US, UK, Dutch, and their allies across the Pacific.The China lobby couldn’t have been happier.  Money and other help flowed to Chiang in massive amounts; however, every step of the way Chiang and the Nationalists were stealing millions.  Mao was ignored and he turned against the US because of our heavy support for Chiang.These are the author’s contentions, not mine.I think the argument that Japanese policy in China was immoral is correct.  And I think America could have stopped selling oil and other war supplies to Japan years earlier, say 1934, after Japan refused to stop its takeover of China.  The author addresses my complaints, but not effectively I think.  In my opinion the book pushes the idea that American bureaucracy caused the war, and once the oil had been stopped Roosevelt could do nothing because of the China lobby and America’s misunderstanding of China.  Why was no one fired after disobeying direct orders, and after Japan’s attack  had shown the fallacy of the thinking behind stopping the flow of oil?  None of this was explained.  This, and other obvious defects materially decreases the author’s arguments.It is nonetheless an excellent book that you should read for yourself and reach your own opinion.AD2