Yellow Journalism about Red China ***3 Stars*** or B-This book is rich in information. However, I think what ruins this book is its alarmist tone. One may as well assume--as millions of Chinese certainly will--that the book was written with secret funding from  major Western governments' foreign policy departments to undermine the Chinese economic miracle. Author seems extremely exasperated that despite its "Leninist" and "Soviet" style political system China has reaped the rewards of free market economics.The author repeatedly charges that The Communist Party is controlled by an "Elite". Which country, community, society or political system does not have an elite of one sort or another? Even your run-off-the-mill Conspiracy Theorist can talk to you for hours about the Bilderberg Group, Catholic Church, Bohemian Grove, Rothchilds and so on....I'm sure millions of Chinese who have been lifted out of debilitating and soul-destroying poverty, lack and hunger are nothing but thankful to The Party. Okay, China did it without embracing Liberal democracy, and some concerns about China's rising military expenditure (and its aggressive territorial claims) may be justified. But there is no reason to demonize almost every aspect of the recent Chinese reforms and economic success led by The Party.Also, in the third chapter (with a cheesy title of "Keepers of the File") the author presents Chinese Central Organization Department as some kind of all-seeing sinister mammoth that has no counterpart in any Western country. But such amorphous central government bodies can be traced in many so called democracies; some would name the United States Department of Homeland Security as a worthy candidate. Although, I suppose, it is the job of governments to keep an eye on domestic activities in order to maintain peace and order. This overseeing role does not always have to have sinister goals.I would see the modern Chinese Communist Party as a strict and stern parent, who refuses to give his/her children the freedom to be frolicsome because the times are tough and full of huge challenges. But eventually, it all works out when the children with such upbringing end up becoming successful and responsible adults.As for "Democracy", I personally think, with time, China will afford its citizens more political freedoms. Take South Korea as a model for China. When, after the Second World War, South Korea embraced economic liberalism its government retained many dictatorial elements. But after a few decades South Korea embraced political liberalism as well, and now it is a robust liberal democracy. China too will get there, by and by.Lastly, as the author himself admits, it took the Western Industrial Revolution at least a hundred years to achieve the same level of progress and development that the Chinese Industrial Revolution has achieved in only three decades. So, instead of being jealous, paranoid and insecure, let's applaud and be inspired by the Chinese success in making life better for millions of men, women and children of the human race.