If the Harvard men blew it, could the guys from Notre Dame done better? Fascinating story of the United States' misunderstanding of China, and the resulting cultural, economic, political and human costs.My complaint and it's enormous because it is ubiquitous in the book, is Bradley's inability to simply tell the story without framing it through his political philosophy, neatly summed up on page 346 of the hardback edition.  Editorializing on Dean Acheson's memoir, he writes, "...the aging Wise Man didn't mention perhaps his biggest contribution to modern America: the secret policy that he as secretary of state had inspired and that reoriented the United States, changing it from a robust democracy with a small professional military into the militarized national security state it had become by the time he published his book."  Bradley apparently believes there was a sea change in the 40s and 50s, let's call it The United States Mirage.Bradley makes the case for how we could have avoided WW II through continued sale of oil and other raw materials to Japan.  Really?  How is our  support of Japan's imperialism any less appalling than support of US gunboat diplomacy imperialism?There are four men Bradley admires, John Service and two state department associates, and Mao Zedong. Bradley theorizes that if we'd only embraced Mao when we had the chance, we'd have an idyllic trade based relationship with China and would have avoided the Korean and Vietnamese wars would have never been fought - after all, Mao, only wanted what was best for the 400 million Chinese peasants.  Perhaps.  However, perhaps there is room for skepticism of Bradley's thesis based on the millions of said peasants who died after Mao consolidated power and unified the country under his rule.If there are four men who Bradley admires, there are many, many who are venal, blind to the facts, and like concrete, all mixed up and then set.  These include every President from President Theodore Roosevelt forward, Pearl S Buck, and especially anyone who set foot in Harvard.  Yes, they got it wrong and in China backed Chiang Kai-shek, but where's the evidence that Mao would have been any more benign than Stalin or any other of the mid-century despots.  I'd have been so much more enjoyed this book if Bradley could have just told the facts and let me draw my own conclusions.