Race or Boxing Match? The CCP files have been digitalized Rush Doshi at Yale and Brookings has labored through the ponderous task of perusal and tells us what ‘they’ think and ‘his’ response in the coming battle for who is to rule (Hegemony) making suggested damaging policy responses. Chinese theorist Yan Xiaotong describes it: ‘A race not a boxing match.’ Doshi describes the latter, or worse. *The Long Game is a very entertaining read in some ways, for the young Chinese scholars have with amazing insight unraveled the forty year demise of America’s Wonderment to now the troubling conditions of America’s Quandary in finding itself again. That search by Ludwig von Mises, Milton Freedman, and Robert Bork for the “Free Market” of Neoliberalism, resulted in reducing ‘Industrial Production’ to ‘Financial Assets,’ the collapse of the Great Recession, and a damaged Middle Class watching the soaring returns of the 1%’ers. They also understand the rise of Populism, our political fracturing, and estimate it to continuing for a decade. They describe current times accurately; our own academics often less well. “Know the Other —Sun Tzu.”Doshi is disconnected from China as it is, hung up on ideology. He misses China current antagonisms and setbacks – the existing departures from Xi Jinping’s ‘Dream’ mostly unmentioned.There is little contact with what has happened in the day to day efforts of CCP’s leadership to broaden its influence among other nations and setbacks that have been frequent, but that diminishes ‘the threat of Chinese dominance’ so no surprise. **Doshi’s concluding What Must Be Done has little to offer on rebuilding infrastructure, and retooling the role of government to promote education, health, enviormrnt and social stability currently on Biden’s policy table, but the M-I-C crowd will be greatly pleased if Rush Doshi taken seriously.China sees America in demise, themselves on the road to preeminence at 2049 -- the Centennial of the Peoples’ Republic.America may be ‘Reformed,’ as many current policy advocates desire, that would reinstall our liberal leadership role and make the coming contest interesting, moving some institutions to meet the changing world; or the projected ‘loss 10 years’ of the young scholars; we’ll see? Conflict will help neither.A mixed bag.3 Stars*Ronan Farrow, in his War on Peace: The End of Diplomacy and the Decline of American Influence, argues that diplomacy is not State Department generated now the power has shifted to the Pentagon, and inner workings of National Security sectors – Doshi’s plans are so designed.**See: How China Loses: The Pushback against Chinese Global Ambitions by Luke Patey describing sever setbacks in developing nations.China's Western Horizon: Beijing and the New Geopolitics of Eurasia by Daniel Markey mentions bombing of C. engineers’ buses as occurred 7/15/21 again in Pakistan – BRI not an easy go anywhere.The Epic Split – Why ‘Made in China’ is going out of style by Johan Nylander, as China losses 40,000 factory a year due to rising cost to other low cost countries.