For $2.99, cheaper than toilet paper if it were a printed copy The author really has a distaste for the Chinese Nationalist, and a love for Mao. In WAR. one seldom has the luxury to chose one's BED partner..So what are the problems for the U.S. in December 1941.1.  The U.S,.Army had to surrender, was forced into the Bataan Death march.2.  Luckily the Carriers were at sea, but the U.S. Navy was decimated at Pearl.3.  Churchill spoke English, had Roosevelt's ears, whereas "Cash my Check" did not.4.  It was decided that Hitler was the worst, tho Germany did little harm to the U.S.4.  A sacrificial lamb was really NEEDED, to keep the Japs occupied,,,..Anyone available in the the Pacific or Asia???  Preferably, a country with a lot of bodies to give, experienced in fighting the Japanese !!Well, China has fought Japan for Eleven YEARS (1931-1941), did so, without the U.S, support and $US. A total of 15 war years during which several Millions of Chinese died for THEIR country.  It is very, very true, China WELCOMED the  U.S. involvement, however one could debate whether it was the U.S THAT SOUGHT China's partnership, THAT IS to occupy/slow the Japs, (serving as  sacrificial lambs)  while the U.S. got on its feet.....or..Consider...an WHAT IF..WHAT IF China surrendered...???  how many American GOLDSTAR mothers would have lost their sons? Yes, Billions of $US might have been wasted/stolen, etc, but I for one,  consider it well spent, in that it tied up about ONE million Japs in MAINLAND China. Whereas, if that were NOT so, those million Japs might have/would have killed Americans in the Pacific islands!....SOME tens of thousand  of Japs undoubtedly would have beenRE-assigned to Iwo Jima, possibly the flag rising might not have happened, and THIS BOOK NEVER WRITTENED. Wasn't it Mao's army that killed Americans in North Korea, and Mao's contributions to HO that killed Americans in Nam?Some will deny that the Chinese (Mao's) military is SECOND to NONE,but if one were to FAST FORWARD China's ambitions, The author's  friends in Wisconsin should learn to use chopsticks NOW.