Well-written and informative, but there's a problem On the plus side, Invisible China is well-written, and its author Scott Rozelle reveals his intelligence, deep knowledge of and passion for his subject matter, i.e. China, his research subject of several decades and, more specifically, the youth of China and their welfare. I found his ‘person on the street’ anecdotes quite revealing. And I believe his conclusions about what can help the Chinese youth are valid, i.e. changes to the way infants are raised, taking steps to avoid rampant anemia, and vision care. In general, I learned a lot from reading this book.However, I was quite uncomfortable about what seems to be his willingness to downplay the harshness with which Chinese regimes, especially in the present, treat their own citizens. Beyond referring little more than once to there currently being an ‘authoritarian regime’ in China, Rozelle does not acknowledge the elephants in the room:  the mistreatment and imprisonment of the Tibetan and Uighur peoples, and dissenters in Hong Kong and elsewhere, to say nothing of the legacy of genocide, e.g. Mao letting 30 million citizens die, mostly from starvation. All of this makes me wonder if Rozelle has made an unspoken deal with the regime, whereby he ignores these relevant realities about China in exchange for being permitted to range far and wide through the country to conduct his research.On p. 177, Rozelle asks rhetorically, “Shouldn’t [I] be worrying more about the education of kids in the United States? Aren’t there babies in California who need [my] attention? Who cares about China?” Frankly, these very questions dogged me from page 1 onward. While it is hard to criticize Rozelle for wanting to improve the health and fortunes of young children, I have great difficulty with his having chosen to help a country run by what I regard as a cruel, rogue regime. Perhaps it is not an accident or an oversight that the regime has given its rural population short shrift for decades; there may be method in their ruthlessness. Their leading edge surveillance infrastructure certainly informs them, so it’s likely they’re acutely aware of the rural situation.In summary, while I’ll accept that Rozelle is not naïve, he’s failed to put all of the relevant cards from the China deck out on the table, and I suspect he’s gone this route not only out of fear of regime reprisal (as mentioned above) but also because he understands that folks like me take issue with him doing anything that will help the current Chinese regime. Full disclosure: I make every effort to boycott products made in China (and yes, its products are hard to avoid).