Very disappointing The most important thing to appreciate about this book is that it is written by a journalist, not an academic, and as such it it riddled with the mindlessness and sensationalization one expects from journalists.I don't want to say that the author has an explicit agenda against China and the party; an agenda would be the product of definite thought. Rather, the author is so thoroughly steeped in the idea that there is one and only one true way to run a country that he simply cannot wrap his head around the concept that in other places, things are done differently. So instead of actual explanations of how the society functions, we are treated to a constant stream of amazement at the ways of those weird foreigners. Pointing out that things are different is fine for the first two pages, after that having the point re-iterated every third sentence becomes tiresome --- there is a reason Bruce McCall's "In the New Canada, Living is a Way of Life" is parody.There is, moreover, more (or less) to this style of writing than simply that it is grating --- it reveals that the analysis of the book is intensely problematic. There is, sadly, far too little comparison with the way other societies, both today and in the past, have been governed; for example in the behavior and organizations described, I saw glimpses of Tudor England. A similar problem is that all too-often the party is treated as a monolithic borg. But the Party consists of around 80 million people --- around a quarter of the population of the US. No group of people of that size is monolithic; on the other hand plenty of large organizations (think large corporations) do a reasonably good of projecting a monolithic image. A better analysis would have put this fact front and center. A third complaint along these lines is the constant reiteration of the word "communist" as some sort of boogieman. The author seems to want to use the term as a cudgel for switching off debate --- he doesn't, and you the reader don't, have to consider the larger ethical picture here of how the society works because we all know the connotations of the word communist --- and if they are secret communists, well that's that much more nefarious.It seems that few of the other Amazon reviewers agree with my take on this book, but the point is that I was hoping for something at least marginally academic, investigating how such a large organization truly functions and imposes its will; and was very disappointed to have the book be so journalistic.