As much as I enjoyed "The Imperial Cruise" for its fresh insights As much as I enjoyed "The Imperial Cruise" for its fresh insights, I cannot say the same about "The China Mirage."  Too glib, too facile, too given to sophistry.  The book is caked with quotes taken out of context, and churned into a mashup of a different China Mirage, that if 20th Century American diplomacy would have simply hitched it's foreign policy wagon to Communist Mao instead of Nationalist Chiang Kai-shek the world would have ended up a much rosier place.The China Mirage is historical revisionism in the sense that makes its argument through the process of distorting the historical record by putting Chiang Kai-shek in a less favorable light and elevating Chairman Mao from a ruthless dictator to a benevolent one.  Most everything in the book has the false ring of truth. The book starts out by mentioning how Chiang threw off his first wife in favor of Mayling Soong, but doesn't mention that Mao had 4 different wives.  Later in the book it discusses Chiang's infidelity to Mayling, however it's a matter of historical record that Mao had his own infidelities.  And what is most disappointing about this book is how everything is argued in a vacuum, and left open ended.  For example, if the Wise Men would have leant their wholehearted support to Mao as he rose to power prior to WWII, are we to infer that the Great Leap Forward (death toll upwards of at least 18 million) would never have happened?  Or that the Cultural Revolution, that persecuted millions, would never have occurred?  At the time that President Nixon was glad-handing Mao, little was known about the extent of either of those tragedies.  Are the Wise Men expected to answer for these lives too?The book ignores the political reality that the fall of the Qing dynasty in 1912 created a very large political vacuum that was filled with many warlords and bandits of different political stripes that would naturally drift towards the right or left.  Remember, this is a country of over 400 million people.  Civil war was almost certain, although not inevitable.  How could any American foreign policy in China, that supported either the Communists, or the Nationalist, not turned into a much larger Vietnam style quagmire immediately after WWII?Lastly, what the book ignores are the two 800 lb. gorilla's in the room - the Soviet Union, and nuclear weapons.  No post-war treatise on China should overlook how Joseph Stalin, and the USSR, would have felt about the possibility of the United States cozying up to Mao on their southeastern border, nor how the budding nuclear arms race between the United States and the USSR affected decision making.  What's missing is the zeitgeist of that era, and without bringing that into the bigger picture one ends up wearing blinders.US foreign policy was a debacle before, during, and after WWII.  The mistreatment of the China Hands is inexcusable to say the very least.  There is no doubt that if that US foreign policy would have been better attuned to the realities in China that many of the postwar errors could have been avoided or eliminated, with many lives saved in the bargain.  This book could have told that story without all the distortions.Finally, one way to judge if a history book will be truthful and worth reading is to look at the back cover and see if there is any advance praise.  There is no advance praise for The China Mirage on the back of the book.  A far, far better book on the topic is "China 1945, Mao's Revolution and America's Fateful Choice" by Richard Bernstein.  Published in 2014, the back cover lists advance praise from seven notable sources.  "China 1945" book does what The China Mirage does not.  It takes into account not just Roosevelt's misguided decisions, but Stalin's role on the world stage, and Mao's malevolent behavior.  And it doesn't keep flinging the word "barbarian" in your face.