The Asian mystery This book attacks American foreign policy in East Asia, focusing on relationships between the Roosevelts and Japan and China.  The central premise is that much of the conflict between the US and these nations could have been avoided by more astute foreign policies.  The timing of the book is interesting, given the recent Roosevelt hagiography on PBS by Ken Burns.  But that is probably a coincidence.There is little that is conceptually new in this book, but it contains much detail that was new, and sometimes exhausting, to me.  How many times do you have to state the oft-reported observation that Chiang Kai-Shek and his wife were manipulators and crooks?  The book is very uneven, focusing too much on the China Lobby and Chiang and paying too little attention to others who played important roles in these dramas, such as Mao, the Japanese leaders, Ho Chi Minh, Korea’s leaders and others.To me, the conclusions reached by the author seem a stretch.  Certainly, events would have played out differently had the American leaders, beginning with the Roosevelts, been less gullible.  Maybe my father would not have died in the South Pacific.  But that is all speculation.Once opened by Perry, Japan seemed destined to follow a European model of colonialism, as did every “emerging” nation of that era.  The relationship between Teddy and the Japanese was only a side show.  China was the “weak man” of Asia, being picked apart by everyone else, much as the Ottoman Empire before WWI.  That made them an obvious target for Japan.  Given its history, China could not rise until a strong leader could connect with its vast population, enter Mao, only delayed by Chiang, just another warlord.  And Mao, an avowed Communist regardless of his postulations, would always have been opposed by American businessmen.  The postwar mistakes of American “statesmen” can just as easily be blamed on the failure to recognize anti-colonialism as the dominant driving force.  This misjudgment, along with the pathological fear of American presidents of being considered “weak”, sent us spiraling into avoidable conflicts in Korea and Viet Nam.  Unfortunately, these problems are being perpetuated, with the Middle East being the new battleground.I would draw three different conclusions from the details so vividly described in this book.  First, America should not let its foreign policies be dominated by Christians, Ivy League elitists or businessmen; they all have personal agendas.  Second, personal diplomacy by Presidents should be avoided; the Roosevelts are not the only ones who have been gulled.  One can cite the Saudis and Bushes and Netanyahu as current problems.  Third, one should always respect the opinion of real experts, whether diplomats or scientists, when deciding important national issues.Although I believe this book is significantly flawed, it does provide a lot of interesting information about a critical period in American history, plus lessons that we should have learned, but did not.