Mr. Bradley should apologize to Joe McCarthy I generally like James Bradley's work but in "The China Mirage,"  he misses the extensive impact of communist influence in the Federal government during the '30s, '40s and '50s that has been documented thoroughly now as a result of the released U.S. Army's Venona transcripts (Venona: Decoding Soviet Espionage in America", Haynes and Klehr) and authors like M.Stanton Evans. His typical denigration of Joe McCarthy and homage to diplomat John Stewart Service indicates thin research of current sources available about the times. Here's an example:Mr. Bradley writes about "McCarthyism, the witch hunt for the enemy within" (page334) and mentions McCarthy "fearmongering" (pg.342) but fails to mention that there were hundreds of communist spies reaching high levels in the federal government undermining U.S. policy.  Chief among them were John Service associates Lauchlin Currie, personal assistant to FDR, and Solomon Adler, senior Treasury Dept. official. Others include Alger Hiss, State Dept., Harry Dexter White, Treasury, Klaus Fuchs, atomic scientist and many more.In Chapter 12 (Who Lost China?)  he absolves John Service's involvement in transferring military and intelligence documents to communist Phillip Jaffe who ran the pro-red magazine "Amerasia," calling the documents "innocuous." Bradley says, all investigations of Service, "concluded that Service was innocent and had caused no harm."  In reality the FBI impounded roughly 1000 documents from the Amerasia office and Service's State Dept. office. about 25% of which concerned military matters with a warning that possession violated the Espionage Act. Hoover called it "an airtight case" ready for prosecution but it was politically fixed. The FBI knew this because it had wiretapped the fixers and had logs of phone calls of the conspiracy to free Service (see Blacklisted from History, M. Stanton Evans page 117-122).Mr. Bradley needs to read Mr. Evans definitive history and recognize that Joe McCarthy was more right than wrong.