A fascinating story, but how accurate is it? Before reading this book, I knew practically nothing about the history of America's involvement with China.  So it was a real eye-opener to read about the missteps, misestimations, and plain old blunders by which American leaders, primarily the Roosevelts and their brain trust, attempted to mold China into our own image while being completely ignorant of the real state of affairs in that land.However . . . the book did peripherally touch on matters on which I am knowledgeable -- specifically, Pacific War history -- and I came to realize that the author was pretty careless with the details.  He identified the Augusta as a battleship, instead of the heavy cruiser that she was.  He claimed that Guadalcanal was the America's first battle of the war, something that would have been news to those who fought at the preceding battles of Wake, Java, Coral Sea, Midway, etc.  He claimed that B-52 bombers burned Tokyo to the ground, when in fact the planes were B-29s; the B-52 didn't even enter service until 10 years after the Tokyo raid.  And speaking of the Tokyo raid, he claimed that it took place on March 11, 1945; but, rather amusingly, he quoted -- in the very same paragraph (!) -- the raid's leader as saying (correctly) that it took place on the night of March 9-10.Admittedly, these are minor faults, and they have no bearing on the main thrust of the story.  But I couldn't help but wonder, if the author wasn't able to get such minor and easily verifiable details as these correct, how accurate were his more important points?Finally, the author made two major points that didn't sit well with me.  The first was a recurring comparison between the two leaders battling for control of China, the Nationalist Chiang Kai-shek and the Communist Mao Zedong, which essentially boiled down to "Chiang bad, Mao good."  The main body of this book gives not the slightest hint that the "good" Chairman Mao was directly responsible for the intentional deaths of millions of his countrymen.  (To be fair, this fact is acknowledged -- barely -- in the footnotes.) The other point was the author's contention that America's embargo of oil shipments to Japan was the cause of World War II in the Pacific.  In other words, he blames America for the war.  But I would submit that the fault lies with Japan, for having launched a war of aggression against first China, and later America and her allies.  The oil embargo might have been the catalyst to push Japan to war against the United States, but there would have been no war if Japan -- not America -- hadn't taken aggressive actions in the first place.So all in all, this book was quite an interesting read; and I suspect that the account of American ignorance and duplicity contains more than a little truth.  But given the factual mistakes that I know of, and the revisionist conclusions about China's leaders and about whose fault the war was, I am left in doubt as to the total level of trustworthiness of this account.