Seeing Things as they were This is an immensely fascinating book about the history of American interest in China from the perspectives of the key men from both countries. It begins with the American interest in getting a good trade deal and the indignation at the haughty stance of the Chinese emperor. From then, America and Britain bullied the Chinese with their superior fire power. This was the time of Warren Delano, the grandfather of President Franklin Roosevelt. Bradley gives a gripping account of how the Roosevelts made their fortune from the China trade. But by the First World War, America lost interest in China briefly until Japan started its dominance as a power in the East.The bulk of the book tells the story of how Chiang Kai Shek and the Soong sisters, one of whom he married, together with his brother-in-law, T V Soong, lost China and fooled America into believing that by supporting Chiang, they had a puppet they could manipulate. America was taken in by a combination of factors – that Chiang and the Soongs were graduates from American universities (Chiang was from Harvard) and became Southern Baptists (an important factor to Christian America – it was fervent in its zeal to spread its Christian religion to the Chinese peasants), Chiang’s dishonesty, his sister-in-law’s cunning, the popularity of Pearl Buck’s book ‘The Good Earth’, America’s ignorance of China and the Chinese, and lastly, America’s own ‘China Lobby’ consisting of top aides of President Roosevelt who believed that Chiang would beat the Japanese and also the communists. Billions of dollars were given to Chiang’s ‘New China’. Bradley does not say so, but questions arise as to how much of that went to the Chiang and Soong families who continued to own properties in Brazil and New York even after they lost China to Mao Tse Tung.The same ignorance and naivety coupled with the desire to dominate Asia led to the American debacles in Korea and Vietnam. Just as the Americans had no idea what Mao was like (they only saw the flashy but hollow Chiang), they had no idea what Ho Chi Minh was like because they saw only their own puppet, President Ngo Dinh Diem, who, like Chiang, was a Christian president in a Buddhist country. These two episodes are found in the last chapters of the book. They are relevant to the question ‘Who lost China?’ which was raised. Bradley pointed out that most Americans do not know that Mao offered his hand in friendship to America but was spurned until 1973 when President Nixon finally paid homage to the Celestial City as did foreigners since the ancient history of the Middle Kingdom.It seems that America is still perceiving the China mirage when it constantly sees China as a threat to regional and world peace when in fact it might be America itself that creates and poses that very threat. To that end, Bradley's book can be enlightening - but only if America wishes to see clearly.This book is lucidly written and explains the greed and political ambition, cunning (and naivety) in politics and international relations. The book is 376 pages long but can be read in a day because it is impossible to put down.