Unbiased analysis of corruption in the rich and powerful Through eight chapters (237 pages), Schweizer details the slavish relationships between the totalitarian government of Red China and many rich and powerful American individuals, families and organizations.  He backs his writing with 81 pages of small-print reference notes.  He provides details of shady and foul dealings between Chinese government-controlled entities (frequently in the military and espionage realms) with these Americans.  He provides their names (including Barbour, Biden, Boehner, Bush, Dorsey, Feinstein, Gates, Kissinger, McConnell, Pelosi, Swalwell, Trudeau (Canada) and Zuckerberg.  He names entities in Big Tech, Wall Street, academia, sports and politics.  He also provides quotes from some of them, extolling the virtues of the totalitarian government of China (reminiscent of the historical comments from some in America and Europe regarding pre-WW2 fascist Germany).In their pursuit of power and money, these (so-called) “elites” compromise and endanger the people of America, Canada and China (indeed, the whole world).  From a broad perspective, these failures of trust are not surprising.  They explain much that seems so wrong in the world.  But the details and scope of the revelations in this book paint a dark picture- is it too late to reverse course?  Mr. Schweizer’s last chapter (11 pages) is titled “Fighting Back.”  He presents some good ideas and I hope that people of good faith and courage will push back against such evil.  He names a few prominent people who are doing that.How much wealth is enough and what are you willing to do to get more of it?  At what point will greed or blackmail (actual or the fear of it) enslave you and put you on the path to hell?  In chapter 19 of the Gospel of John (vv. 23-24), Jesus says, “Truly I tell you, it is hard for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of heaven.  Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for someone who is rich to enter the kingdom of God.”I encourage you buy and read "Red-Handed."