The Last Fifty Years Frank Dikotter, long time Chair of Humanities at Hong Kong University, has continued to hold on to his faculty position despite his books being banned in the People’s Republic. He sees this as fortunate since he is unknown on the mainland he still has access to the archives. In the preface to this late 2022 work he notes that regional archives for the Mao years (1949-1976) were opened in 1996 under Jiang Zemin and then closed in 2012 under Xi Jinping, but post Mao era files (1977-2002) became available. By the period of ‘Reform and Opening Up’ begun by Deng Xiaoping in 1978 the Party had become a system where industry, large enterprises, land, natural and financial resources were all controlled by the state. Systemic corruption and inefficiency had made the fiscal deficits and mounting debts unsustainable.Using Tiananmen Square as backdrop Dikotter looks at past dissent in post imperial China  from the May 4 1919 protests against cession of Shandong to Japan in the Versailles Treaty to the March 18 1926 massacre of protesters against the unequal treaties still in effect with western imperial powers. During the war period of 1937-1949 there wasn’t time for demonstrations. Planned economies during the Great Leap Forward and political chaos in the Cultural Revolution had China on the brink of another revolution. On April 4 1976 pro-Zhou Enlai and Deng Xiaoping protests rallied against Madame Mao’s Gang of Four coup attempt. They restored the Brezhnev christened ‘anti-Soviet dwarf’ back to power. Courting US favor Deng railed against the Russian threat and was rewarded with a Most Favored Nation trading status.In the early ‘80s the Party began to turn a blind eye towards private enterprise in rural areas as farmers left to their own devices made a profit for themselves and the state. Reversion to a mercantile past asserted itself in cities, black markets multiplying beyond Beijing’s control, to the point where local industries competed for raw materials with the state. Independent businesses used the cover of state owned  collectives to reap the benefits of easy loans and lax tax oversight. These developments were met by hand wringing and lip service denouncing the decay of socialist principles and spread of bourgeois liberalism. In practice the first steps toward capitalism were taken without central committee approval, exploiting dual exchange rates that kept export prices competitive in foreign markets and imports costs low.A special economic zone in Shenzhen, near Hong Kong, was blessed by Deng during a 1984 visit, becoming a center of foreign investment and technology. Cheap labor imported from the hinterland fled to the bright lights and higher pay across the bay. To counter the exodus free trade areas were established where local authorities made decisions on foreign trade and provided better working conditions. While industry didn’t take hold import/export business did and opportunities in coming computer technology were taken. Sixteen new free zones were created with the provision they wouldn’t be run or funded by Beijing. Cases proliferated of stolen chemical and pharmaceutical formulas and led to counterfeiting of household appliances, office equipment, industrial and agricultural machinery in a wild east of trade.In the late eighties export trade to Japan and the US boomed. State subsidized industries like textiles crushed American mill owners and products flooding the markets were shipped through Hong Kong to conceal the country of their origin. Factories produced goods for sale below cost and made up the difference with state loans that would never be repaid. Televisions and automobiles were imported to special zones using duty free status and currency manipulation for resale at three hundred percent markup as inflation rose between thirty to fifty percent. State subsidies of consumer staples were bankrupting the state and Deng abruptly ended price controls in 1988, causing a run on the banks. Students took to the streets in protest of the economic conditions, the official corruption and the lack of democratic representation.By early 1989 Deng reversed course, reinstating an austerity budget and price controls for household items as well as industrial materials. ‘Enemies of the Party’ and ‘Capitalist Reactionaries’ were arrested, some executed for moral examples and to divert attention from the state of the economy. As cancelled projects drove fifty million workers back to the countryside a young filmmaker broadcast the documentary ‘River Elegy’ portraying the Yellow River as a metaphor for the downfall of a kingdom through the folly of its king, its silt and sediment symbolic of corruption within the corridors of power. Proclamations followed that China ‘will never copy the separation of powers and multi-party systems of the West’. Student protests occupied Tiananmen for a month, ending in the massacre of June 4th 1989.Crowds had grown in the square, 300,000 by Gorbachev’s state visit on May 15. CCP Secretary Zhao Ziyang urged a conciliation with the students and workers who had joined the protests but was opposed by Deng and the hardliners. Footage of the protests were broadcast around the world as demonstrations spread to cities in the south and west calling for Deng and Premier Li Peng to step down. Martial law was declared and the People’s Liberation Army shot and killed 3000 civilians. European leaders condemned the crackdown while Deng blamed the US for fomenting insurrection. GHW Bush offered little criticism and sent Kissinger to pucker up to the regime. Thousands arrested and summary trials held, punishment was meted out with prison time or a bullet in the back of the head, often orchestrated before large crowds.Zhao was ousted and replaced with Jiang Zemin, who waged propaganda campaigns to route out foreign collaborators plotting to defeat socialism and poison the body politic with western spiritual pollution. Lei Feng, fictional Mao era model soldier and socialist, was wheeled out of mothballs to appear on television, in movies, study groups and symposiums. The 150th anniversary of the Opium War provided an opportunity to denounce a ‘Century of Humiliation’ China endured at the hands of imperialists. United Front established a network of domestic and international celebrities and spokespersons to win over hearts and minds and to promote acceptance of the Chinese Communist Party. Thousands fled from Hong Kong, considered by Beijing a hotbed of foreign subversion, trying to escape the rapidly approaching mainland handover.Attempts by Margaret Thatcher to bolster the confidence of British subjects living in the crown colony after the 1997 handover were met with hostility and threats by Deng and Li. New security laws in the territory would ignite protests in the coming decades. The constitution rejected a democratic framework and separation of powers as a ‘Western system unsuitable for Hong Kong’, instead promising ‘a high degree of autonomy’. Lech Walesa’s Solidarity Party led Poland to a peaceful transition to democracy following the Tiananmen debacle, increasing paranoia in the CCP that communism was failing on all fronts. 70,000 protesters took over the center of Leipzig demanding an end to the East German regime and a month later the Berlin Wall fell. Sensing the gig was up Beijing censors blacked out news of events.As statues of Lenin fell in Russia, Mao’s little red book became required reading again in China. In response to the massacre the World Bank ended billions in interest free loans prompting Chinese cutbacks of imports from Japan, Korea and the US. The yuan was devalued by 20% ramping up exports to the US and EU by 60%. Taiwan ended a ban on mainland trade and tourism, increasing revenue by 250%. Despite the reaction to Tiananmen, China was open for business. Fang Lizhi, a leader of protests was allowed to leave China in exchange for resumption of US trade. The World Bank stipulated that there was no connection in its charter between financial assistance and human rights. The CCP learned the value of hostage diplomacy for a single dissident as Japan ramped up Chinese investments by 40%.Further currency devaluations became the mainstay of the export trade but created inflation and higher loan interest. To cap prices in raw materials the CCP recentralized control of state monopolies. The strategy increased losses in the industries and required subsidies to keep them afloat. A mismatch between supply and demand created stockpiles of goods without buyers and rotating debt between government banks. In a socialist economy businesses aren’t allowed to go bankrupt creating a whole class of zombie companies. Bad debt equaled the total currency in circulation and 20% of all loans. Party elders who managed the planned economy were political theorists, not economists. When stymied by the old guard in the capital Deng resorted to former tactics of Mao, appealing directly to the people in tours of economic centers where he championed reforms and opening up to the West.Deng’s plan was to exercise political control of foreign owned companies, in effect to use capitalism against the capitalists, encouraging even greater foreign investment and economic development and demonstrating superiority of the socialist system. A large area of marshlands across the Huangpu River in Shanghai was promoted to become a new financial center to rival Hong Kong. Foreign investors soon found themselves mired in a sea of red tape as they began to take advantage of the concessions. Everyone from Siemens to Matsushita and Ford got on board including the former opium dealer Jardine Matheson. In a short time every major city on the coast was offering preferential policies to foreign firms. Real estate development leapfrogged each prior year as domestic investors registered foreign shell companies.The great boom was predictably followed by retrenchment and austerity as banks were left holding up to 40% bad debts lent out to all sorts of scam artists, often petty officials in the government, banks and military. Peasants were victim to runaway inflation and became migrant construction and factory workers living in shanties on the edges of provincial capitals. Jiang conducted sweeping purges of party hacks who opposed economic reforms, replacing military leaders and stacking his allies in the security and propaganda apparatus. A strongman was needed to bring local leaders to heel, ‘an enlightened Mao’, but such a force was decades away in the person of Xi Jinping. Zhu Rongji, Li Peng’s Vice-Premier wrested tax collection from the provinces and replaced it with a centralized revenue service in Beijing.The renminbi was further devalued by 33% and the dual currency exchange rate dismantled in 1994. Membership in the WTO required a transparent legal system, a convertible currency, removal of trade barriers, protection of intellectual property rights and other business practices foreign to the PRC. As moves were made to address the deficiencies many outside observers thought China was transitioning from a planned economy to a market economy, and that democracy would follow, promoted by the Clinton administration. The weak renminbi created a trade imbalance that ballooned to trillions of dollars over the decade. The government pulled foreign currency out of circulation to maintain their trade advantage. Paper money had to be printed to absorb foreign cash and the rate of inflation skyrocketed to over 30%.In a political system without an independent judiciary or a free press, where party leaders dole out loans and rights to trade, corruption is a constant condition. Mao and Deng had periodically purged the party in the name of eliminating graft, a convenient excuse to get rid of enemies. Jiang Zemin was no exception when he came to power, executing rivals and rolling back economic reforms in favor of centralized control.  Taiwan democratized and grew wealthy from US and EU trade but Jiang had nothing to offer other than hardline policies of his predecessors. Reunification was a priority whether by peaceful means or war. Taiwan president Lee Teng-hui spoke at Clinton’s alma mater Cornell, where he requested recognition and fighter jets, causing a diplomatic dust up and provoking military exercises over the island.Clinton sent aircraft carriers to international waters as China laid claim to the South China Sea and its islands, building bunkers and airstrips on coral reefs. Jiang led a propaganda campaign of ‘spiritual civilization’ to disparage material development and attack foreign culture. Everything from McDonald’s and Mickey Mouse to high heels and short skirts came under fire. Filmmakers and authors like Zhang Yimou and Mo Yan were castigated for their criticism of the rush to growth and favorable portrayals of foreigners. More to the point it was realized socialized business couldn’t compete with capitalist companies on a level playing field. Dissidents were silenced for speaking out against corruption. Deng died in 1997 and his economic reforms were swept under the rug in favor of Jiang Zemin’s brand of socialist conservatism.After the Hong Kong handover currencies across Southeast Asia began to collapse, starting in Thailand and spreading to Malaysia, Philippines, Indonesia. The Four Asian Tigers of Hong Kong, Singapore, Seoul and Taipei retreated in 1998. With a devalued currency that couldn’t be converted on open markets, restrictions on capital flight and a stock market off limits to foreigners China was insulated from the downturn. As the Federal Reserve raised interest rates China became the greatest holder of US debt after Japan. Its stability in the financial crisis hid underlying problems of insolvent banks and bankrupt factories. The solution was to merge the failing state enterprises and offer shares listed in Hong Kong and New York. Pollution, health and safety regulations didn’t exist, millions of workers were left to fend for themselves.As Clinton visited Jiang in 1998 veteran dissidents of the Democracy Wall and Tiananmen were released from prison and exiled to the US as a gesture of goodwill. Activists tried to register a Democracy Party and were arrested. A wave of political repression and imprisonment continued into 1999 when 10,000 religious protesters know as the Falun Gong surrounded the walled Zhongnanhai compound of top CCP leaders, who were reminded of the White Lotus, Taiping and Boxer rebellions of the Qing Dynasty. The cult had grown to 70 million followers. A crackdown sent over 35,000 to jail, continuing through 2001 when 40 million Christians were persecuted, their leaders sent to labor camps. The next year thousands of outlawed temples, churches and ancestral halls were either torn down or blown up in every province.Hu Jintao took charge of an atheism program designed to weed out anyone with religious beliefs from the Party and populace, and became leader of the People’s Republic. The successors of the original revolutionaries were reactionary party hacks who rejected received wisdom of liberalization. The organizing principle was the CCP’s need to ensure that it remained in charge of every aspect of life. A next campaign gave Party membership to private business owners, eliciting admiration from Western liberals, but really only embedded leftist ideologues in enterprise. Joining the WTO in 2000 trade imbalances with the US ballooned to a quarter trillion dollars per year, putting factories in America and Mexico out of business. Huge energy and mineral resources were pulled out of Africa and South America to fuel production in China.A year after China won its 2002 bid for the Olympics a virus began to spread from a market in Guangdong, mirroring the pandemic 17 years later in its official obfuscation and refusal to inform the WHO. Before the 2008 opening ceremonies protests in Tibet against human rights violations ended in thousands of arrests and dozens of deaths, sparking angry demonstrations around the world. By the late 2000’s China had linked Shanghai to Central Asia with a network of oil and gas pipelines and became the world’s largest cotton producer and purchaser. In 2012 Xi Jinping would become Chinese leader and inaugurate the Belt and Road Initiative connecting South and Southeast Asia, Africa and Mideast with maritime ports, interest deferred loans and graft to politicians playing key roles in securing long term leases.In 2008 the subprime lending market collapsed major US banks and spread around the world. Interest rates had been slashed to 1.5% to counter deflation caused by the trade imbalance and cheap Chinese imports. The recession that followed caused widespread unemployment and factory closings in China. The US and EU lodged complaints about dumping of merchandise on their markets. Shortly later the Great Firewall went up, Google, YouTube, Facebook and Twitter banned and replaced with Chinese clones. An army of censors guarded the internet and flooded message boards with pro-government posts. In the wake of the Sichuan 2008 earthquake 69,000 had died and 4.8 million were homeless due to shoddy construction and lack of regulatory oversight. People from all over helped rescue efforts and gave money.Celebrity dissidents, a Nobel Peace Prize winner, support for the Dalai Lama led to a vast network of surveillance cameras and police stretching from Shanghai to Chongqing. Beijing was outraged about Western powers attempting to subvert socialism. The Arab Spring of 2011 set off a campaign of soft power, international institutes, newspapers and television to promote the Chinese model. Military budgets doubled and quadrupled to protect cargo ships and oil tankers passing through the South China Sea. After Xi came to power cyber attacks ramped up. Shanghai’s market crashed in 2018, stock sales frozen and foreigners blamed. A crackdown on enemies of Xi began, journalists expelled, a million Uyghurs detained in labor camps. US trade barriers began in 2018 and Hong Kong democracy protests in 2019 ended in the pandemic.