Practically Flawless For the first-time visitor and the frequent traveller to China, the inner workings of the Chinese Communist Party are far from transparent and often overlooked in expeditious pursuit of the travel destination or business deal.  For those of us resident in China, the Chinese government, or "the Party", is a behind-the-scenes, all-pervasive enigma few of us understand given the paucity of information emanating from the Party itself.The Party: The Secret World of China's Communist Rulers is a well-intentioned attempt to go beyond the whisperings of our Chinese colleagues.  As the former China bureau chief of the Financial Times, Mr. McGregor had more access than most to the deeply secretive Chinese government.  He uses this access skillfully to access the force behind China's economic transformation, and attempts to answer the question many of us politely decline to ask our Chinese colleagues: "If the Party, locked in its ossified Leninist ways, is secretive, corrupt, hostile to the rule of law and vindictive in the pursuit of enemies...how on earth did it manage to preside over one of the greatest spurts of economic growth and wealth creation in recorded history".  In a time when the "Beijing Consensus" of authoritarian socialism is being seriously considered as an alternative to the "Washington Consensus", the book certainly hits upon a timely issue.  Unfortunately, while the book is important to the China neophyte and a healthy reminder to the rest of us, our appetite for the Party's secrets are left largely unsated.In the first chapter, "The Red Machine: The Party and the State," McGregor sets the tone in this atheist nation with a quotation by an unnamed university professor, "The party is like God. He is everywhere. You just can't see him.".  He goes on to draw parallels between the big red machine of the Party and the use of telephone hotline "red machines" outfitted in each of the top 50 state-owned enterprises, the offices of the top newspaper editors and some 300 other offices, to show the interconnectedness of the Party.McGregor, an Australian, is at his best when drawing striking comparisons between China and the U.S., belittling the myth of China as all-embracing of Western capitalism.  He points out that here in the Shanghai, the showcase of Western-style capitalism and often compared to New York, state-owned enterprises produce 80 percent of the GDP.  Although the figure he uses is somewhat higher than the 48 percent put forth by a recent joint study by the Shanghai Enterprise Confederation and the Shanghai Entrepreneurs' Association, his point is valid for the whole of China, especially in the second- and third-tier cities.  His best comparison occurs in early 2009, when the heads of the top three telecom firms are reshuffled in an effort to reduce cronyism and corruption - an action equivalent to the heads of AT&T, Verizon and Sprint in the U.S. being shuffled without notice.In the third chapter, "The Keeper of the Files", McGregor fascinates us with the inner workings of the Central Organization Department, the Party's human resources department with "all the trappings of a sophisticated, multi-national headhunter" with rules and regulations.  Lest we get too impressed, he adds that "the same regulations contain loopholes large enough to push the numerical benchmarks aside", loopholes presumably driven by cronyism, corruption, and other Chinese characteristics.In the fifth chapter "The Shanghai Gang", the author provides a fascinating account of how graft corrupts the capitalist workings of the real estate industry.  Given the vast amount of corruption, McGregor sees China as "more of a political miracle, albeit one built on economic growth".In the final chapter "Tombstone", McGregor details the epic work of Yang Jisheng, who after two decades of painstaking research compiled the two-volume book Tombstone, chronicling the death by starvation of 35 to 40 million Chinese during the Great Leap Forward.  While the book sold well in Hong Kong it was naturally banned on the mainland, presumably by the Central Propaganda Department, in charge of the media and the enforcer of history.  While the Department's role is quite far-reaching and controlling, McGregor overdramatises the Department's role in enforcing the official line, stating that "Nothing less than national security is at stake".  While the Central Propaganda Department may believe this to be true, and in may be true in dealing with the outbreaks of violence in Xinjiang and Tibet, for the most part the Department tales it self too seriously.  In the context of today's China, where collective historical amnesia reigns and people are obsessed with obtaining and preserving wealth, a "coming out" of the atrocities during the Great Leap Forward would not necessarily plunge the nation into instability and devour the Party.  The majority of Chinese today are far too busy trading up their salaries in new jobs every six months in order to save for a downpayment or meet a mortgage payment on that apartment or house their future wife is demanding.McGregor saves the best for last in his Afterword, where he rebuts scenarios in which the Party loses power.  The current financial crisis is quickly dismissed, as many of the toxic instruments had yet to be sold to or developed within an immune China.  McGregor chooses to overlook his earlier comment on the 1997 Asian financial meltdown in which "for the whole banking system, 45 percent of loans made before 2000 had gone bad".  One wonders what is different this time around following China's recent massive stimulus lending to real estate and infrastructure.  The inclusion of China in the World Trade Organisation was expected by many to expose China's weakness when in fact its trade surpluses have grown since joining.  The rise of the middle class, where many a revolution has been launched, has also failed to topple the Party, as owners of apartments and shares turn more conservative in hopes of preserving their wealth.  The much-touted (and growing) Gini coefficient, a measure of inequality, has not weakened the people's faith in getting rich first, and corruption charges are merely the outcome of a political struggle.  Indeed, corruption is a major concern for the Party as of late, with internet users increasingly active in drawing out the most flagrant abuses that embarass the system.  The number of high-profile cases seems to be growing, maybe because of greater disclosure.  Yet in a country as large as China with a huge state sector, the number of Party officials being disciplined remains small - since 1982, of the 130,000 to 190,000 officials disciplined annually for malfeasance, only 6 percent were criminally prosecuted with only 3 percent going to jail and 80 percent receiving a mere warning.  Growing public discontent over the lack of action taken on corrupt officials may be behind recent protests.  Official data show a more than tenfold increase in the annual number of large protests and disturbances since 1993, with more than 90,000 cases reported in each of the past four years.  For it seems that as long as the abuses are not too excessive, and whilst you can pay protesters to get off the street, the corruption will continue.  And as McGregor rightly points out, some corrupt regimes have enormous staying power.On the whole his work provides a mere glimpse into the otherwise opaque machinations of the Chinese Communist Party.  McGregor readily admits in a recent interview of having "barely scratched the surface", and the reader is inevitably left asking for more.  And many of us wonder what the big fuss is about - why is this book banned in China and pressure put upon the American Chamber of Commerce in Beijing to cancel a planned speech by the author?.  Nonetheless, his work is mandatory reading among the expatriate community in China and for foreigners wishing for a peek inside the decision-making apparatus of the Chinese Communist Party.What worries me most after reading this book is how much further the Party, and its ruling officials, can take China.  Case in point is Vice-President Xi Jinping, newly appointed vice-chairman of China's Central Military Commission, widely expected to assume leadership of the Party when Hu Jintao steps down as party chief in 2012 and president the following year.  Given the paucity of information on Xi Jinping, it is near impossible for the outside world to assess how well qualified he is to run the country.  In a system which has historically relied to a great extent on guanxi, endemic corruption and the buying and selling of official posts, one wonders if the Central Organization Department is really putting qualified people in place to run a country growing in complexity during challenging times.