How the Chinese Communist Party is ruining China If you think Deng Tsao Ping was a great reformer think again. He was just as much of a communist monster as all the others. He gave the final order for the tanks to roll into Tianmen Square. (To be fair, the Gang of Four would have been even worse.)If you're not on first name terms with Chinese dictators it's sufficient to know that the upper reaches of the CCP is a hereditary caste, often intermarried, always corrupt. Anti corruption drives are periodically ordered, the purpose is always factional advancement, not the cleansing of the institutional corruption that characterises China from top to bottom.The author does a good job of disentangling the personalities and power politics. As he documents the twists and turns, and actual U-bends, of central economic policy it can be hard for a non economist to follow the reasoning behind the party directives. Simpler perhaps to assume that this is a case of dogs fighting under the carpet and not about an efficient economy at all.Amazingly China has emerged as a challenge to the US and the West despite its criminal leadership and idiotic economic policies. This shouldn't be surprising. It's a very large country with charming and industrious people, who are almost always successful if they are not in China.But the politics is about to bite back. Forty years of a one child policy, mal investment in high rise apartments with maximum two bedrooms, breakneck industrial growth that has polluted much of the land and all of the rivers, and capricious central diktats will take its toll.If you're a socialist you won't like this review. If you're not you will be alarmed.Williams eventually comes to Xi Jinping, but the discussion of his rule is but a short addendum to the meat of the book. Yet this man, previously a faceless apparatchik with no discernible charisma, has risen to be party chairman / president / head of this or that commission, and is now indoctrinating Chinese  schoolchildren with Xi Jinping Thought. As if. He's been in power for ten years already! So the absence of a detailed analysis of Xi, or even of his "Thought" is disappointing. Which means 4 not 5 stars from me.