“There are so many of us ….” The stories you don’t hear.China is a puzzle, depending on the measurement used the world’s largest economy or the second largest, but also the world’s most populist.  Per capita income puts it in a class with countries like Algeria, Costa Rica, and Thailand, and its future depending, as many are fond of raising, escaping The Middle Income Trap.It is ‘This China’ that Rozelle and Hell turn their attention to calling forth the extensive research of Rural Education Action Program, or REAP, a linked project of Stanford University and Chinese associates that devotedly focuses on what they see as China’s enormous hurdle to development in years to come – a great topic objectively pursued with compassion and intelligence but how attractive will that be to the ‘China critic,’ your choice?What they have found is the miracle of development that has rushed that nation to the top of the pack in so many ways contains a glaring flaw that must be solved in the changing relations of losing 40,000 factories a year as gift of ‘cheap labor’ drifts away, migrant workers return to their villages and none plan to farm. The authors forcefully detail the evolving scene of a labor force of 300 million with no high school education, the national average being 30% completed the lowest by far among developing nations, and automation and foreign competition destroying employment. To this they add 60 percent of the elementary school children in the Invisible China are suffering from at least one of these three conditions: Anemia, Uncorrected Poor Vision, and Intestinal Worn Inflection, all of which damage learning ability. (p. 109). The story becomes a little redundant in telling but powerfully detailed on what must be done in policy formation to overcome the barriers that will lock the nation in ‘that trap’ as Mexico and Brazil appear to have fallen; policy that have been implemented mention including ‘all through public high school in 2020’s, by Xi Jinping; treating birth to age five as critical times for child development a new area of mounting concern also a positive sign, China raising programs. *The authors’ basic argument is that in our globalized world China and its welfare is of a concern to us all. Instability in the Middle Kingdom will rattle all our cages.Good Scholars.5 stars*Biden likewise pushing the issue domestically.The merging of Labor Forces with the world of A.I. and Automation issues all ready very evident in current times, universal basic income a topic on the table, even in China, but unlikely. (p. 179).Too many people.