Illuminating perspective on the underlying tensions between the US and China The Avoidable War is a very timely book on the high tensions that exist between the US and China at the moment.  It was published in March, soon after the Russia invasion of Ukraine and as such is very well timed in terms of its relevance.  Of course the book must have been a project that has been worked on for quite some time now so it also indicates the author's predictive understanding of the growing conflicts that are now manifesting themselves in devastating actions at the level of nation state.  The Avoidable War is an overview of the author's beliefs about the narratives that drive both the US and China's position on both the global and domestic arenas.  It spends much time discussing the priority hierarchy that potentially drives the CCP actions an in particular it attempts to frame the mindset of Xi Xinping.The author spends time on the perspective of both China and the US but spends much more time on China.  As a former prime minister of Australia as well as a long time student of China, Kevin Rudd is truly an expert on the subject he is covering and has met extensively with global leaders throughout his career.  The author begins by giving the historical relationship between the US and China and the thawing between the two with Nixon opening up to China.  He gives a background to the hopes of the US in its early embrace and the contradicting core values that have remained at the center of the CCP with small blips perhaps in the 80s.  The author then goes on to discuss how trust is now at a historical low with the failure of globalization to be equitable in its economic outcomes for many classes and with the Trump phenomenon coming to full force in the recent years.  Both sides can agree on little common ground and as such each views the others actions through the most pessimistic lens and this is makes compromise increasingly difficult with both actors digging their heels in on their own world views.  The author moves on to discussing Xi Xinping, a leader who has disappointed much of the world with a pull to the right for China and its nationalism.  The author has met and had overlap with Xi Xinping on the order of 3 decades when the author was a young diplomat in China.  He gives his perspective on the man and his character and worldview.  At the core the author describes Xi as a man who is committed to taking China to its "rightful place" on the world stage.  There is much historical baggage to this perspective in which wrongs from hundreds of years ago are relevant for todays dismissal of the intent of liberalism.  Furthermore the author highlights Xi's lack of comfort in economics but strong calculations with regards to politics.  The author moves on to the hierarchy of concerns that drive the party's calculations, first and foremost is the sustained ruling ability for the CCP.  This maintenance of power is of more importance than any other consideration and as such is a subject for which any use of force can be justified if the Party's authority becomes at risk.  Another critical concern is how to unify the vast population of China to achieve the common goals of the country, from this drives a use of Nationalism to create cohesion on a group of the scale of China.  This has substantial risks as a strategy as nationalist fervour can be challenging to contain when it blows up.  The author of course highlights the need for China to deliver economic growth to maintain its mandate to govern the population.  One can see that economics can be subordinated to other priorities in times like now given their Covid lockdowns but there is still a core focus on improving living standards as a critical pillar for the party to focus on.  The author also discusses longer term objectives like modernizing the military and developing its technological expertise.  Topics like the construction of bases in the South China Sea are discussed as well as the development of a blue water fleet.  The author also highlights how projects like the Belt and Road initiative are important for China to create a web of dependable economic relationships with its neighbors as well as some of the frictions that come from the lack of institutional oversight of projects.  The author weaves this into its overall leverage building with neighbors through infrastructure aid and other moves to create dependencies.  There is a much lower soft power component to China's initiatives but it still creates benefits for many recipients especially while the US has stepped back from its overseas engagement.  The author then focuses on the desire to change the global order.  This can be seen on a day to day basis with the overall dismissal of the idea that the liberal order is the legitimate one and so the longer term re-design of global institutions which were an outgrowth of the WWII aftermath is a continued project from China.The author then moves on the US which is a fraction of the book and discusses the US's disappointment in the path that China has taken.  He discusses how the US feels like it was cheated by the steps China took in its integration into the worlds economy and how it did not follow through on core promises with regards to its own economy.  With a revised view on China and the expected path of its political economy the perspectives on the benefits of engagement are now considered to be substantially outweighed by the detrimental consequences and as such a decoupling has started.  The US has yet to adjust what it can offer allies so that they can regain some of the standing that it had prior to Trump and military aid remains the more de facto form of aid than greater trade and economic benefits.  Nonetheless this will start to change and one can see from the revival of Nato that some aspects of these trends are starting to reverse due to global events.The author ends with the dangers that come from this growing conflict of fairness on the world stage but notes the deep connections between the two countries from a financial standpoint.  He highlights some mechanisms that might be used to prevent unintentional misunderstood signals and the need for policies that mimic how the US and the Soviet Union tried to prevent disaster through protocols.  Overall the author tries to highlight where the grievances stem from and how both sides need to better understand each other such that conflict becomes less likely but ultimately there are deep ideological divides that are now obvious and impossible to reconcile.  That being said at least part of this conflict stems from leadership personalities that catalyze escalation when friction shows itself namely with Trump and Xi and as such some revision from leadership should be a key ingredient to any normalization.  It appears unlikely that anything like that can be expected right now as politically nationalism and the views on the clash of civilizations is on the rise.  Overall The Avoidable War is a well timed and insightful book that can help the reader understand China's calculus better.