Very insightful perspective on the political strategy of the CCP through time This book is a well timed publication and a very useful resource to think about China's foreign policy strategy and its ultimate view on the changing nature of the global power distribution.  There has been a marked deterioration of relations between China and the US that is finding itself very difficult, if not impossible to change course.  The global pandemic has worsened relations and shown how the different systems are responding to a changing world in very different ways.  Aggressive regulatory changes in China as well have damaged foreign investments and shown China to be increasingly insular with respect to funding its investment needs and all of these issues can be better understood through this latest book by Rush Doshi.The approach of The Long Game is quite novel.  The author, through party publications, pieces together what he sees as China's foreign policy intentions and in particular the parties strategy and goals with regards to rivalry with the US.  The author argues that China has always had a long term strategy with respect to its foreign policy ambitions with the US which started out as China biding its time as it built up its strength to now being more assertive as it views the US to be in visible decline.  The author highlights how there has been a coherence to China's strategy through the similarities of Chinese leaders speeches and that Xi is continuing a tradition not breaking into a new paradigm.  The author brings up concepts like asymmetric strategies where China focused on blunting US power earlier rather than projecting its own by using lower cost strategies which effectively caused the opponent to spend poorly.  The author now advocates the US take this cue themself and focus on blunting China rather than projecting its power explicitly.  The author frames the discussion of the China naval strategy in this context.The author also highlights how the party saw the financial crisis as the event which indicated the decline of US power and the opportunity for China to assert itself with a weakened rival.  The author highlights how China's institution building has been a calculated exercise to reconstruct regional institutions around their interests and driven by their political goals.  In particular the Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank and One Belt One Road initiative are discussed at length.  The Chinese obstinance on any western generated institution building exercise is also discussed and framed in terms of China's blunting strategy.  The author spends a lot of time trying to give a picture of how Chinese policy makers see the world and the unfair balance that comes from US hegemony given that they increasingly view their sphere of influence as being trampled, while of course the US would frame the situation as entirely reversed.  One does get a fair perspective on how US actions are seen to be driven by self interest rather than by some set of ideals, which is how US foreign policy is often framed (which is increasingly unconvincing).Overall the Long Game provides insight that makes sense of the transition of the China, US relationship.  That gives some ability to deduce that frictions will remain structural and the regional and global rivalry between the US and China will likely continue to increase as a new balance is formed.  Furthermore one gets a sense that the divergence between systems is getting more entrenched rather than reversionary as China increasingly views their system as a superior substitute to a decaying Western Liberalism which is decaying from within.  The book also gives some strategic perspective on how to approach China and how  it will be a difficult counterparty to satisfy.  Much of recent events can be understood better as part of a strategic game, both economic and political, that is currently being played.  For that reason alone this is a valuable book to have read.