A Deeply Informed Study of the Relationship Between the US and China and Its Future Prospects Kevin Rudd’s The Avoidable War is a thoroughly researched, meticulous description of the relationship and outlook between the U.S. and President Xi Jinping’s China.  He underscores Xi’s ambitions and world outlook contrasted to that of the West and the U.S. He brooks no doubt but that  we’re in for a long, protracted contest on every front:  ideological, economic, political.  With all of that, he makes the altogether correct case for “managed competition.”As he develops the unfolding history of the relationship between the US and China, it seems to to me that Rudd underrates the importance of "individual agency", importantly now Xi.  He acknowledges there were others, including Zhu Rongji, who genuinely espoused a more collaborative global relationship for China. But he implies that the plan for China to create countering ideology to the West has been consistent over the decades. I am not sure of that.He appears to be absolutely  right that Xi’s hold now on the country’s leadership is extremely strong and it will take an economic turndown of some duration to change that.  Rudd points out  certain material risks that Xi is taking on the economy, particularly his shifting emphasis to state-owned enterprises from private enterprise.  How far he’ll push that, I don’t know.  The pragmatism of China’s leadership has been ascendant in recent decades and I think will remain so; thus a shift in that balance back toward private enterprise is, I believe, entirely possible.There was an opportunity in the last year of  Hu Jintao’s leadership in 2012 to move to what Beijing had described as its vision of a “G2-flavored world order” which it called a “new type of great power relations.”  Chinese diplomats pushed this hard, seeking American acceptance, but Washington’s level of enthusiasm for the idea of a U.S.-China “condominium” ranged from lukewarm to ambivalent to outright hostile.I was impressed by the genuineness as. Rudd described it of Xi’s strategic commitment to the environment:  clean water, useable land, uncontaminated fish stocks, etc.The superiority of the U.S. nuclear arsenal is striking.  In 2020, China had an estimated nuclear arsenal of about 290 warheads compared to some 6,000 nuclear warheads in the United States. But China is building fast.I learned about the importance of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue which was created in 2019 between the U.S., Japan, India and Australia.  It is known as the Quad.China’s outreach across the world, including the Middle East, Africa, even Latin America, not to mention Southeast Asia, is being led by the Belt Road Initiative.Public opinion has shifted dramatically in recent years.  About 76% of Americans now hold an unfavorable view of China, up from 60% in 2014 and 40% in 2012.  The same trend exists in China, just as it has in Russia.  There is no question the inflammatory political rhetoric supported by all major media plays a big role here.  It’s an illustration of what I have long feared:  Self-fulfilling expectations fueling genuine differences in world outlook.One development I had not been aware of which i a source of social opposition in China, is religion.  The overall number of Christians is now estimated to be reaching nearly 100 million.  Xi is trying to suppress this.Rudd makes no bones about his belief that it was “willful blindness” that kept (Americans) from understanding that the notion that China was headed for an American-style democracy was always a Western fantasy.The control of the Communist Party in China is underscored by this fine book.  Xi has no intention of ever transforming China into a more liberal, democratic state. (Decades ago, we had put a lot of emphasis on the fact that there were democratic elections in villages, or at least so we thought.)What we are seeing today is China adopting the model of authoritarian capitalism that is more tightly controlled, less market-driven, and more mercantilist than decades ago.  Beyond that, Xi has fanned the flames of an aggrieved Chinese nationalism that is increasingly explicitly anti-American.Rudd’s formula to avoid war is to identify and acknowledge mutual redlines, the most important for China being Taiwan and then human rights. It will require to backing off further inflammatory  rhetoric, confrontation in the South China Sea and China's over flights of Taiwan and cyber-attacks.Doing all this will obviously be a tall order, especially  having to take place in an atmosphere where trust is almost gone. It will require close monitoring and a seriousness of purpose and a belief that while extremely difficult accommodation is possible and essential. Alternative scenarios are dangerous to the extreme.This will require the appointment of individuals reporting directly to the presidents to negotiate the terms.  Whether that can happen under Xi’s leadership or during our own current administration is doubtful but that cannot be allowed to halt our pursuit of this vision.