Australian reflects on the state of relations between U.S. and China The focus of ex-Prime Minister of Australia is the future of diplomatic, trade, and military issues related to United States and China. The center of the book focuses on the 10 "concentric circles" Rudd presents - think of them as separate chapters on ten "issues" on how the Chinese government (focused on Premier Xi) and United States see each other.Author Rudd derives these "circles" from how he views Premier Xi Jinping views the world scene around China, and what Xi's priorities are.  Each of the ten is "ranked" as to how Premier Xi views them in importance - thus, # One is"  The centrality of Xi and the Party and the Hard Business of Staying in Power.While I agree with most of these priorities, would disagree with the order of #4 (Environmental Sustainability) and #5 (Modernizing the Military) - switching the order seems more important in Chinese leaderships mind, in this reviewer and authors view.The text is highly readable, including his writing about Premier Xi's "Leninist Capitalism" discussion and how the premier view Nationalism....a topic the author is seriously concerned the world will see increasingly relied upon in coming decade, as the premier confronts the issue of Taiwan (n particular),China's economy, etc.Early in the text is his review of how Premier Xi came to power - a lesson few would know about - including his stay at an Iowa farm when Xi was a low-ranking bureaucrat!  This is followed by some history lesson for the reader about how current Chinese relations devolved to what they are today - including the disastrous actions of former-US President Woodrow Wilson (unconscionable duplicity at the Versailles Conference, after World War One). Rudd speculates the who rise of the CCP and state of U.S. relations would have been totally different, for the angst this created in China has never been forgiven among China most prominent leaders since (especially Mao).My only critique would be Rudd needs to review his World War II history in the CBI theater, where he suggests the U.S. was at fault for focusing on Europe "First" policy and not having allocated such manpower to fight in China, against Japan. The realities were that the Burma Road and the Hump Himilayan airlift were the only ways to reach China in the war days - totally inadequate for supportinga large army - and, there was no alternative route either from the sea or Southeast Asia (via Thailand, etc.). What airlift there was, was barely sustainable for the post-Flying Tiger years - India and Burmacould simply did not have the infrastructure.Secondly, he faults the General George Marshall mission (1945-47) as a "fools' errand". This reviewer would contend that Mao had not given up on the U.S. at that period, in part, from Mao's nationalism belief coming first (before Marxist-Leninism) and were the U.S. to withdrawn its support of Nanking-based Chiang Kai-shek - things might have been different. Mao's humiliation before Stalin may have left the door-open even more. (Read: THE CHINA MISSION, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan; 2018).On balance, certainly a very good read - one very readable and unsstandable to the layman, as well.