Americas unnecessary missteps in Asia So many misunderstandings. China, Japan, Vietnam, Korea. Educated men mislead by people of self interest. A legacy that continues to this very day. Current arguments about a one China policy, a belligerent North Korea, not mentioned in book but the debate on Okinawa. America has produced some really good experts, John service and John Davies on China, George Kennan on Russia, Archimedes Patti on Vietnam; men whose opinions were mostly dismissed because of their conflict with what this author calls a mirage. I see an arrogant man or men, standing in the door, blinded by oversize egos, refusing to accept or even listen to the other side of the story. Men with preconceived ideas of morality and white washed superiority. East coast elites looking through a glass and seeing countries, cultures and peoples that need to be taught and lead the right way. Of course it's their way and not self determination as defined by Jefferson. The wise men say it's a path to containment of a danger that will save not only them but us. Really!!! Whether it's a Roosevelt or an Acheson or a Dean Rusk, the end result is the same; conflict, spilling of blood, spending of treasure; finally an uneasy co existence where a suspicious mind in the head of a maniac is dangerous. Dominos, containments, us against them; words from the vocabulary of the creators of the neo con Cold War culture. Eisenhower's military industrial complex warning come alive. Acheson even called it an economic policy for the west. "Korea saved us" the author tells us Acheson gushed. At the same time, we have yet another warning about special interest groups. The main facilitator of misinformation for this authors work is the China lobby. Working with Americans like Henry Luce of time magazine, propagandizing an American public always seeking to help the down trodden. Putting out stories that were not true, slanted towards building and expanding the mirage. Painting the pictures of hero worship. Over two hundred thousand Americans killed in wars caused by this misreading of the oriental mind. Hundreds of billions of dollars spent building a dream that was not real. A grand illusion, this author says its a China Mirage. Finally, the most disturbing aspect of this story is the christian angle. Missionaries and state side churches saying things that were not true. Example being Chinas people are wanting to convert to the christian faith and become like America, turning back the heathen race. Sure according to this author, some people did convert but the vast majority did not. We're talking a population of 400 million in the 20's 30' and early 40's. People like Pearl Buck writting stories about peasant farmers, likening them to the American farmer during a time of the Great Depression. Her book became a best seller then a movie. The speaking circuit put her in more American minds.  Henry Luce, mentioned earlier, the son of a missionary, founder and head of the notable Time and life magazines empire, doing story after story, cover after cover on the "christian" Chaing Kai Skek. No where near accurate but used for the purpose of extracting money from the American government and the gullible christian public. A new China they said over and over again. An illusion, a great Oz behind the curtain moment that lasted for years and that In the end was a Shameful sin of the highest order. What a waste of money, people, energy and above all hope. It could have been much different. The ones that knew the truth were on the inside looking out but the bubble was a one way mirror.  A real good book that gives a series of great events some depth.