A Striking Exposure of American Elites Corrupted by the Communist Chinese Government. The content of Red-Handed is both tremendous and horrifying.  The deep financial and political ties between American elites, of all political affiliations, and high ranking members of the despotic Communist Chinese Party (CCP) leave one breathless.Red-Handed is very well written.  Author Peter Schweizer has taken a truly staggering amount of information and presented it in a way that is very easy to comprehend.  It is also thoroughly research, by Schweizer, who is an expert in the craft, to the point of actually quoting from Hunter Biden’s emails from Hunter’s own laptop, of which Schweitzer is in possession.  Not to be outdone in his thoroughness, Schweizer also corroborates Hunter’s emails with the emails of Hunter’s own business partner.But make no mistake, the corruption goes far beyond the Persistent’s wayward son, from politicians at the highest levels of government to the tech and financial sectors, even as far as professional athletes.  All have been sucked in by the vast fortunes to be made from China, built off slavery and genocide, and “ultra efficient” authoritarian Chinese system of government.  While some may simply start as opportunists hoping to exploit out of China what CCP has exploited out of its own people, they are required to deflect or defend against even the most terrible acts of the CCP and denounce their own countries.  One might say they are called on to deny or defend the plank in the CCPs eye, while boisterously denouncing the speck in the eye of their own homeland.  Perhaps the cognitive dissidence becomes too much to contend with because a large number seem to become true believers in the “efficiency” of the authoritarian CCP and turn their backs on Freedom.Red-Handed should not only be read by everyone with an interest in preserving political, social, religious, and financial freedom from the spread of authoritarianism; but this book should be discussed and debated on every self-respecting news program.  Its precepts should be challenged, and sources thoroughly vetted by serious journalists seeking actual truth, because if this book is accurate, we are in deep trouble as a nation, and world.