Vivid, Live and Fascinating Scholarship Like a lot of people I was fascinated by Flags Of Our Fathers and considered it a great son to father story that the fame of Bradley's father aside any son brought up in a loving household such as his would have wanted to write to pay homage to their dad. If James Bradley had stopped with that book it would have in no way shape or form made him the proverbial one hit wonder. He further honed his skills with his next two volumes that like Flags tackled singular events with a combination of storytelling, perspective and background. His latest work The China Mirage solidify his skills as an historian by outlining the history of US-China relations and how those relations impacted the two nations in the Second World War, Korea and Vietnam and still to this day color most Americans perceptions of China.It is a story that has previously been told in parts. There are many biographies and autobiographies where key players in this continuing drama tell their story. There are also many fine works of history that touch upon certain aspects of this story as relates to the specific subject that a particular author is addressing. There however have been no works that this reader is aware of anyway that attempt to relate the story as a coherent whole. In that endeavor the author very much succeeds. Sometimes the proof of squarely hitting a target is the criticisms you receive for doing so. Some of the scholarly reviews that I have read on this work show just how deeply ingrained many of our false impressions of China are, have been and continue to this day.Many of our countries policy decisions regarding China have been colored for decades as Bradley so ably documents by the China Lobby. The myth that the US lost China persists to this day even though you cannot lose something that was not yours to begin with. Yet it continues to impact how we as a nation relate to China to this day. Rather than mentioning specific people or events that Bradley speaks about in his work , I will suffice it to say acquire it and read it yourself. To do anything else might spoil some of the many surprises contained within its covers.