A most illuminating and insightful book. I listened to the audio version and then purchased a hard copy to read for a second time. Mr Rudd has come up with the type of analysis and insights rarely seen from a politician these days. The fact he speaks Chinese and had been on the inside, has in no doubt aided him in his endeavor by making a clear sense of a most complex domestic and geopolitical situation and then proposing realistic solutions. He uses ample data to support many of his thesis but only where it is needed and necessary. The writing is equally crisp, direct and in some places passionate and powerful. This is truly a must read for anyone who is interested or bothered by what is going on between China and the US, especially for those who are likely briefed daily on those matters but choose to stick to his or her own beliefs because of oversized arrogance or sheer ignorance on both sides.Now I come to a few areas where I somewhat disagree or perhaps hope to add to the author’s perspectives without giving things away. First of all, while Mr Rudd’s 10 circles of relative strategic importance of Xi Jinping’s priorities are the most comprehensive I have seen for completeness, I am afraid he is giving the communist leader too much credit for his overall mindset and intelligence. Xi is certainly an astute student of revolutionary politics and has proven ruthless in its prosecution. However, he is quite behind his contemporaries when it comes to economics and geopolitical prowess in today’s international environment. As a result, many of the strongman and imperial style ambitions he expresses may never be carried out. Even if he attempts, disastrous outcomes await his regime and the Chinese people at large. China under Xi Jinping is therefore likely to be aggressive in name only but not in substance, some of which Mr Rudd has also alluded to. Secondly, much of Xi Jinping’s actions at present are no more than political power posturing for Chinese domestic consumption. Just like Mao Zedong some 70 years before, China will not start a war with the US over Taiwan for fear of losing to the US and therefore see its one party legitimacy in jeopardy.  To that end, a preemptive attack on the US in the Pacific to exploit a strategic first mover advantage is even less plausible. Having said that, I do think chances for an accidental military confrontation due to miscalculation are nonetheless real between China and the US but of limited consequence. Thirdly, there are also hawkish factions in the US which are spoiling for a major war just to defeat China in an epic battle between “the good and evil.” The last thing China wants is to be coerced into such an eventuality where the loser is bound to be itself regardless of its economic size and military preparedness. At the end of day, close to half of China’s population still barely survives with $1000 per year, a dismal distance from even the least prosperous of developed countries.So what if Taiwan decides to breach the red line and declares independence in the near term? This would definitely incur Xi’s wrath and bring China and the US immediately to the brink of war, leaving him with no choice. I however hope that smarter minds and cooler heads can prevail under such a scenario. The most common sense response is to simply refuse to acknowledge Taiwan’s legitimacy and cut off diplomatic and economic relations with any country which chooses to recognize Taiwan as a sovereign country. Unless there is a global boycott of China should it choose military intervention, I doubt any of the countries including the major Western Powers will take sides with the renegade province, especially if China chooses a non-military approach.If Xi Jinping indeed has the interest of the Chinese people at heart, then China’s sheer scale in territorial size and population coupled with sustained economic growth will see its economy return to global dominance, eclipsing any other country by a large margin in 20-25 years. Xi Jinping may not see Taiwan return to the motherland in his lifetime, but if there is a legacy to speak of for himself, it would be the laying of the foundation for 1000 years of Chinese Rejuvenation. By then, who will ever care about Taiwan?