A valuable polemic on United States Asia policy in the Twentieth Century This book is a good read.  It has a fascinating discussion of the China Lobby's methods and influence on American policy in the 1930's - 1960's.  It is not a dispassionate history, however.  He's more like a prosecuting attorney, providing all negative facts about American policy and the Nationalist Chinese government and all positive comments (with the exception of one) about Mao.  He mocks the Noble Chinese Peasant as an advertising gimmick without ever considering that their lives might have nobility to them, especially for what they suffered under Japanese attack and rule. None of the Nationalist military efforts after the fight for Shanghai in 1937 are given any credit for slowing or occupying Japanese military forces, even the forces provided to Stilwell at United States insistence to fight in Burma when the most serious need was in East China to stop the Japanese Ichigo Offensive. And this despite the fact that the bulk of the Japanese army faced and fought the Nationalists forces for the entire eight years of the war-- not Mao, nor the the U.S. nor the British.  My advice is to read another book first, such as Forgotten Ally by Rana Mitter, that tries to fairly portray the Nationalist and Communist and, for that matter the United States and Soviet, contributions to the war in China before taking on this polemic on U.S. foreign policy.Mr. Bradley justifies this one-sided negative appraisal of Chiang and positive one of Mao way back in the notes by saying that Mao won the Mandate of Heaven (rule of China), so he was presenting the case for it and leaving out the rest of what these leaders did.  This is not an historian's approach.  By the same logic, the U.S. won WWII, so every thing we did in the war must have been right--which is the opposite of what he is trying to say about our China policy.Lastly, he argues that the U.S. war in the Pacific would not have happened if we had not cut off Japan's oil supply, and that this would have been a good thing.  That's wild speculation at best.  Japan had invaded Manchuria in 1931, China in 1937, and taken over a portion of Indochina in 1941 before the U.S. cut off the oil supply.  They were an expansionist power.  They knew there were voices in the U.S. advocating the cutoff of oil and they knew their military needed oil to hold what they had, let alone keep expanding.  So an attack to grab Indonesian oil fields was probably only a matter of time, especially with the Netherlands, the owners of Indonesia at the time, under occupation.  If we had not cut the oil supply the date of a Japanese attack on Indonesia would have been delayed and there's a somewhat greater chance it may not have included an attack on Pearl Harbor.  But the net result is that Japan would have become a stronger, still very militaristic power, and would likely have defeated the Chinese.  The Philippines astride their shipping routes to the oil fields would have eventually brought war with the United States, but at greater advantage to Japan.  We would have had to face them with their army not pre-occupied in China, and having built up more oil supplies and a larger, better trained and staffed navy.  Regardless of war with the U.S. or not, the U.S. would not have been driven into the war as early as it was, so would not have had it's forces trained and armed as soon as it did, making victory in Europe more difficult.  Keeping out of wars is normally a good thing (Vietnam and Iraq come to mind), but sometimes the alternative can be a worse later war, as Britain and France discovered at Munich.His fact-chewing could have been improved-- he has B-52's attacking Japan in 1945 (p320).  These planes, of course, were B-29's.So, with all these caveats, why is this still a book worth reading?  Because it provides an understanding how American policy can be manipulated by foreign countries.  You could write as thick a book on British efforts in both World Wars to get the U.S. into the war.  This was presented as especially true in the absence of good intelligence and familiarity through the kind of contact that immigration provides.  Also, it presents a clear alternative way to view U.S. relations with Asia with which to balance the ways we've looked at them in the past.