Interesting Perspective on the "Good War" This book adds some very valuable perspective. My father was not overly religious, but like many of the Greatest Generation, he was taken in by Life Magazine and thought highly of Chiang Kai-Shek, whom publisher Henry Luce apparently went out of his way to portray as the pro-Western Christian good guy.With Imperial Cruise, Bradley described America's early dealings with Japan from Commodore Perry through TR's handing over Korea (in exchange for their staying out of the Philippines). Mirage starts with the opium trade that made the Roosevelts rich to start with. It then shows how U.S.-educated Chinese powerplayers, over decades, learned to leverage overseas support from wishful evangelicals to build their power base. When the interwar years interrupt Chiang's losing battle with Mao Tse Tung, we see a full court press by Chiang, Madame Kai-Shek, and allies in Washington and New York to steer the U.S. into fighting Japan for them.I don't fully agree with Bradley's premise that we could have avoided the Pacific War, unless one imagines us not building up the Japanese empire with U.S. steel and oil in the first place. And once re-elected, FDR was willing to go further to support the Nationalists, at least to buy time if nothing else.But as today's generations have seen, from Gulf War II to Trump, not everyone in D.C. follows the president's playbook. Some under FDR agreed with him that a total embargo of Japan risked war; others did not. With cunning, and thanks to the chief being away at the wrong time, the latter camp (chiefly Stimson, ultimately Dean Acheson) conducted their own foreign policy and at least managed to speed history up. This is perhaps Bradley's greatest contribution.I agree that he sounds too sympathetic to the clever Mao, whom he admits could be as barbaric with his own people as Chiang. An informal, often snarky tone doesn't help him from coming across as overly liberal. Through three books though, I've found the revelations worth Bradley's take on things. His is not the final historical word, but it's mostly a positive addition to the puzzle.