Alarming Depths of Misunderstanding Revealed by Expert Author I have just finished reading this book. Full disclosure: it was kindly sent to me by the author James Bradley, since I translated from Japanese a book by Professor Masayoshi Matsumura titled in English 'Baron Kaneko and the Russo-Japanese War' (also available on amazon, see product link in comment below). He has used the translation in the early part of this book (especially Chapter Three) to help describe the relationship between President Theodore (Teddy) Roosevelt and the Japanese Baron Kaneko, both Harvard graduates. His acknowledgement by the way, both inside and outside the book, has been full and entirely appropriate.I have learnt a great deal from Mr Bradley's latest offering. A lot of it relates to a fundamental misunderstanding over decades by most Americans of China, and especially Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek (known rather appropriately to the British and Harry Truman as 'Cash My Cheque'!) and his arch-rival for the Mandate of Heaven (as the governance of China was traditionally called) Mao Zedong. There were many who contributed to this misunderstanding, and the false assumption that Chiang was the right horse to back, when he was no better than an incompetent warlord in many respects. Meanwhile, repeated overtures from the eventual winner in the power struggle for China, Mao Zedong, were ignored or brushed aside by successive presidents and administrations, until at last Richard Nixon met with him.This book explains exactly how the misunderstanding and 'mirage' of China as a country thirsting for Christianity and US-style democracy came about: it was mainly manufactured by the powerful China Lobby, including a combination of cynical Chinese manipulators and American wishful thinkers such as Henry Luce of 'Time' magazine who put Chiang on the front cover of the magazine no less than seven times. The Christian missionaries sent from America to China since the 19th century also had a major hand in it. Meanwhile the Old China Hands such as John Service who understood China very well - from long experience living there and speaking the language - were brushed and cast aside.Another alarming fact revealed is that Franklin Roosevelt had no idea for about a month that an oil embargo had been placed by Dean Acheson in Roosevelt's absence from Washington DC on Japanese purchases of American oil - which made them desperate enough to attack Pearl Harbor and so begin the disastrous Pacific War. The adjective 'loosey-goosey' which appears in the text barely seems to cover the laxness of Roosevelt's lack of control over his administration!I really like this book, because like Bradley's other books, it is remarkably readable, pulls no punches, and explains complex issues with great clarity and ample supporting evidence. It does not appear to over-simplify anything. As a British reader with little real knowledge of Franklin Roosevelt or his administration, it is hugely informative. If I were to quibble, I should say that an academic-style book really should have a bibliography, since there are so many books referenced. But perhaps this was deemed unnecessary in a book which seems destined to become another bestseller. This is, in short, a highly recommended 'tour de force'!