Wake Up America! Red-Handed: How American Elites Get Rich Helping China Win is another excellent book by Peter Schweizer. The book, released last month, was the result of the well-documented research that he and his team did over the past year. It is mind-boggling the number of American government officials, that once they leave office, form a consulting business on China, such as former Senator William Cohen. The moment he was out of office, he established the Cohen Group. There are a whole lot of “Groups” of former American officials.This reader liked how Peter Schweizer did the Table of Contents. The American Elites that got rich and helping China win are categorized by content. There is Capitol Hill. There is Silicon Valley. There is Wall Street and on and on. The Bidens are special. They got one content/chapter just for themselves: The Bidens. Not just Hunter, but his uncle Jim and his father Joseph Robinette Biden Junior. One will shake their head, how open are the unlawful activities of the Biden Group. While Hunter is being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Internal Revenue Service, the investigation has been going on for a very long time. Does one really think that there will be any indictments prior to 2024?When Joe Biden was vice-president, Hunter Biden had Secret Service protection, as he does now. After Hunter got going with his new China activities, he informed the Secret Service that he no longer required their protection on his China trips. He would use their protection when he travelled to other countries, but not China. One wonders why?When reading the chapter on Silicon Valley, one wonders, when we do have a war with China, whose side will the high-tech tycoons be for? They might be American, but in a war, their allegiance might be elsewhere.What is with these San Francisco girls, Dianne Feinstein and Nancy Pelosi? Feinstein was never a critic of China, although in the early years Nancy was. Her attitude eventually changed once her husband and son started doing deals in China. The deals became and bigger and the Pelosi family became richer and richer.By the time this reader finished Red Handed, he was worn out. The list of those getting rich and helping China win simply continued to grow. This reader has had a 30-year involvement with China. It began that November day in 1980 when he and a Northwest Airlines plane full of American businessmen & women landed in Beijing. This was the first official U.S. government sponsored trade exhibition to China. We felt we were pioneers and worked hard to achieve success for our corporations and country. That has certainly changed over the years.Thank you, Peter Schweizer and team. You did a great job with this book!