SO? WHAT SHOULD HAVE BEEN DONE? This is an extremely interesting book! If only half of what the writer writes is true it would be mind-boggling. He includes so many footnotes that it would take an historian very little effort to find out any errors in the author’s story if there were any so this would make it seem that most of what he states is probably true. And it straightens out a lot of the whitewashing that has been done to the history of the relationship between America and the East Asian countries for the past couple of centuries in our grade and secondary schools. And everywhere else.However, I have one very important question to ask the author: “What should have been done?” What does he seem to be implying for how the FDR Administration should have acted in regard to militarist Japan in 1941? He doesn’t actually spell it out in so many words but he seems to be intimating that we should not have cut off the supply of oil and gasoline to Japan the way we did in the 1940’s. But think about this just a little bit! If we had not cut off the supply of oil and gasoline to Japan, they would have kept up their bombing of China unopposed by a good air force. They would have kept up their war against China without interference from us. They would not have attacked the United States so we would not have entered a war with the Empire of Japan. Hence Adolph Hitler would not have declared war against us. We would therefore not have supplied large amounts of military aid to England and the Soviet Union nor entered the war against the Nazi forces. Would this not have allowed Japan to take over the rest of China? Then take over the rest of Southeast Asia and India? And the South Pacific countries including Australia? Would this not have allowed Nazi Germany to continue their war, with no opposition from us, against the Soviet Union? And after taking over the Soviet Union and the Mideast oil fields, would they not have turned their entire attention to conquering Great Britain? And after taking over Great Britain, Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy together with their ally, the Empire of Japan would they not have taken over the whole continent of Africa? Who was to stop them? Not us! We would still be neutral. We would still be isolationist. We would still not have wanted to “become involved with European (and Asiatic) conflicts”! We would still be lily-white clean, without blooding our hands with foreign wars!And the results? They would have been that the entire planet would have been divided between two powers: The continents of Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia, together with all of their oil and other natural resources, being controlled by the militant warlike powers of Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy and the Empire of Japan, with their vast armies. And the continents of North and South America being controlled by democratic United States of America. An isolationist United States that had, in 1939, an army of about 180,000 which ranked 19th in the world, behind that of Portugal! And which wanted nothing to do with fighting a war with any foreign nation!What would the balance of power been then? How long could that have lasted? How long could Democracy have remained alive and viable under those circumstances?Is this what the author wanted? To be sure, we would have stayed out of war. At least until we could no longer even hope of winning a war! But at what price? Think about it a while! Sometimes one does not have a choice between Good and Evil. Sometimes the choice is only between Bad and Less Bad. Which would the author have chosen?