Thought-provoking and insightful - a must for any China watcher Richard McGregor's "The Party" offers us a well-balanced, thought-provoking insight into the machinations of the Chinese Communist Party and, more generally, into how China functions.Many Western commentators bray constantly about the imminent and inevitable collapse of the political system in China. According to them, the liberalization of the economic system and adoption of the free market, in which individual decisions about what to buy and what to sell hold sway, will inevitably undermine the autocracy of a political system where individual rights do not exist. In his masterful book, East & West, Chris Patten tells us that this contradiction cannot exist in the long-term. A breaking point is inevitable and when it comes, the Party will collapse.MacGregor, however, questions this premise. Plenty of predicted breaking points have presented themselves and yet the Party continues to hold the reins of power. If nothing else, this has demonstrated its astonishing adaptability. As such, those who say history ended when the Cold War was "won", with the defeat of a society based on a politically authoritarian and centralized economic model, by a politically democratic free-market society, may have rushed to judgement. For the resilience of the Communist Party in China, potentially offers a third-way of politically tight control coupled with relaxed control on economic matters. This was Deng Xiaoping's answer following events of June 1989. To this day, it continues.MacGregor further points out that rather than succumbing to the challenges of joining the WTO and the global financial crisis, some may say that the Deng's formula has seen China come off better than its Western counterparts. The ability of the Party, through the control it can still exert over the Chinese banks (which had been transformed from state owned monoliths into IPO'd companies whose shares were hoovered up) to quickly ensure money was pumped into the economy, stood in stark contrast to the US and Europe where quantitative easing was debated until the cows came home (and still is). The message from China's consequent economic uptick was: "look how better we are than you are". It also cemented the continued legitimacy of the Party.My particular favourite chapter in this book is that on the sinister, grey, anonymous and yet ultimately powerful, Central Organization Department, which MacGregor describes as the Party's HR department. The Organization Department, according to MacGregor, vets and controls an astonishing range of appointments so vital to the Party's continued exertion of power and control. I couldn't help but be amused and astonished by this description, as it seems to fit the way an HR department works in any large multinational company, albeit in "China plc" you can multiply the appointments it has to oversee by ten!Make no mistake, however. This book is certainly not an advert for China's system of government. MacGregor points out that corruption in China remains deep. The rights of those who question the system are ultimately suppressed if they cannot be shut up by co-option.  But what MacGregor's books gives us is a different insight to the Party, one which does not judge its "goodness" or "badness" but seeks to bring to our attention the fact that it has proven to be far more adaptable to meet the continuing challenges presented to its existence than we can imagine. Protests are met with the strategy of pay-off first, and only if that does not work, will they be stamped on. Propaganda, which failed in the SARs crisis, has since borrowed from the Blair government's handling of the mad-cow disease crisis to correct things.In its adaptability, the Party has so far found the key to its survival, and (through the continued deliverance of an economic miracle even in the midst of the financial crisis) its strengthening. It is, in short, not going anywhere. And as China continues its advance to world superpowerdom, we would all do well to take that lesson on board.Peter Gregoire - author of