Brilliant, sweeping story of China -- 1839-1900 Writing:  5/5  Plot: 5/5 Characters: 5/5A sweeping novel of China from 1839 - 1900,  from the Opium Wars through China’s Century of Humiliation to the suppression of the Boxer rebellion.  It’s the story of the conflicts surrounding the forced opening of China to Western trade, customs, and religion.  The story is told through a variety of characters who span cultures, classes, backgrounds, and professions (including plenty of women characters with different roles, abilities and agendas).  Multiple generations of characters such as a young English merchant trying to make his fortune (through opium), an upright Mandarin charged with enforcing the emperor’s ban of opium, a palace eunuch, a peasant girl, a mercenary pirate, a missionary, a Manchu bannerman, the emperor and various concubines and princes, and some craftsmen.  The characters have depth, too.  They reflect on what is happening, how they feel about their own role, and how to achieve their goals while maintaining their values (or how to shift their values to attain their goals).I love that history itself is the protagonist in this novel, rather than the background setting for individual stories.  Everything is told through the personal stories of the characters — either through participation in the action or through conversations between neighbors, colleagues, and family members.  Even past history is exemplified in ritual and description of the origin of individual morality.  This approach brings to the fore what it was like to live through these times with only direct observations and rumors as sources of information.  And how very different that information was depending on your location, background, profession, culture and connections.  Additionally, there were so many fascinating descriptions of various ways of life — all told in a style that was interesting because someone was learning it (e.g. a craft) or going through it — so always real and never dry.  This was a long book, and I literally had trouble putting it down.  (As a warning, one of these “fascinating” descriptions was about foot binding, and I skimmed through trying not to read that at all.  Of all the atrocities visited upon humans, this is the one I find most horrific and barbaric (yes, even more than female circumcision which comes in a close second).This is my first Rutherfurd and I’m now going back to read more. Meticulously researched, personal and accurate — a kind of modern day Michener for those old enough to remember classics like Tales of the South Pacific, Hawaii, The Source, or Caravans.  After reading this, I have a far more in-depth understanding about the relationship between China and the West and of life in the 19th century.