Communism--a primer on the Chinese version This book is a real head turner or should I say an eye turner for those looking for an up to date description of how the Communist Party in China controls industry from top to bottom of its society. But if you are looking for a description of original communist theory as postulated by  Marxist-Leninist principals then a book on that subject may better suit your needs.But what you can learn from this book is exactly how the Chinese have managed to slowly change their industrial policies to a combination of of communism and capitalism.The author takes you on and interesting insiders view of how corruption, incompetance, and politics have been woven together to create one of the most productive societies in the world. It even in some cases mirrors some of the things going on in our own society which could if left unchecked could lead to the demise of our economic system to the level of China's.The author describes the major departments of Chinese Government and the role each plays in maintaining control of both the industries and the people. The most interesting is the Department of Organization which in our society would be the Personnel Department. It is there that people are selected for positions in government and the private sector. However this department functions with no rhyme or reason and does so simply through the buying and selling of jobs by people who want jobs or in some cases want to lose theirs by crossing this department the wrong way. There is no merit system in China, major players are selected simply by corruption, incompetance  or through politics. And if you should happen to be selected for a high level or sometimes a lower lever job you are assigned a Communist party member to watch you to make sure you tow the Party line. Sometimes the CEO and your assigned party member are regarded as being at the same level of power in a company or government agency. Talk about confusion about lines of authority and role in society. Imagine writing a job description for those jobs. Sometimes the party member is also the CEO. So he gets to watch himself. Obviously he is not going to report on himself. This opens the door to the question as to how China even functions in any productive way but it does this through deceit,lies, and the general ignorance of its population.  What an eye opening book!! A must read for all Americans.