Good chronicle of the Chinese Communist party In Eight chapters, McGregor covers the themes that the Chinese Communist parties influences - these include the state, businesses, the personnel department, the military, matters of corruption, the span of central control, the marriage of capitalism & socialism, & finally the history of China.To be sure - these essays were written in pieces over a period of 8 years -  McGregor does a fairly good job of organizing this multifaceted & dynamic system into some sort of a coherence. This is particularly so because of the secrecy that this entire behemoth operates with. Having said that though, you'll find that most of these things intermingle all the time. The stories of corruption are also the stories of Chinese businesses as they are the stories of the propaganda department. The autonomy asserted by the regions are also stories of business & corruption. In fact, as I write this review, it appears to me that the the Chinese story, at least since the time that Deng took over & beyond, really is a story of two competing/cooperating/contradictory themes - one of control & the other of efficiency. It is the interplay of these two forces that determine what China does. Wherever this combination succeeds, as it has done in most cases, efficiency has produced the kind of growth that we've witnessed fueled by access to land, resources & licenses all controlled by the party.There are a quite a few interesting non-economic stories in many chapters. These touch on the political system within the party, the awkward balance between capitalistic & Marxist philosophies, the still awkward pseudo-reward system that corruption really constitutes & the the glaring gaps in Chinese official history of China.I'd have to say that I had to struggle a bit to get through this book, but that does not, by any means, reduce the value of its content. Much like the system this book looks to elucidate, this book itself, in spite of Mcgregor's best attempts, can seem dry & overly interconnected with more than necessary detail. Having said that, if you persist, I reckon you'll definitely learn new aspects or of new relationships, however contorted, that govern China.@souvikstweets