A well written analysis on our awful foreign policy vis à vis Asia First, regarding the negative reviews on this book … The majority of Americans are so spoon-fed by their 'education' a/o liturgy as to fossilize those ‘teachings’ into fixed truths … when better information subsequently appears they dig in their heels refusing to allow these truths to see the light of day.This book destroys many shibboleths — that the 2 Roosevelt’s and Truman were some of our greatest presidents, that all our wars were necessary and justified, that errors of governance were not on our accord but were monkey-wrenched by others (Communists, Chinks etc), that the USA is the greatest nation on earth and its corollary — all other nations are criminally corrupt a/o inept, that all policies are based on “best for state” data and never on favoritism, prejudice, ax grinding, vendetta etc. and that the USA has never been a narcotraffcker  of opium a/o heroin.Bradley’s text does an outstanding job deconstructing these myths and illuminating how these errors have resulted in the unjustified deaths of millions, squandered > $10 trillion from our Treasury and poisoned the well for future administrations.  Sadly, nothing has been learned because George Santayana had it right — those who do not know history are condemned to repeat it.  Look — even our current president, the Kenyan squatter in the White House, remains as clueless as the prior apparatchiks in his position.  Or, to borrow a line from Talleyrand RE Obama … “he has learned nothing and forgotten nothing.”Why not 5-star review?  This book makes a common error stating that North Korea invaded South Korea in 1950 starting the Korean War whereas, in fact, the converse is the truth.  For example, RKO President Syngman Rhee subsequently admitted that South Korea invaded North Korea during an August 1954 interview with US News and World Report.  For more information RE how the USA contrived this war Goggle “How to Start a War: The American Use of War Pretext Incidents” in an excellent article found in GlobalResearch.ca.