"Party on, Garth.  er.  Mao." I felt as if I was perusing a high-level briefing on the contemporary state of politics in China while reading this book.  The Party demystifies the operations and attitudes of the current Communist Party on a range of the most politically salient areas, including business, the army, the state, and history.  In each chapter, the CCP is shown to be generally adaptive and creative in responding to social stresses, for example by refining its techniques of social control through banishing malcontents to the hinterlands (such as He Weifang, a law professor at elite Peking University, who was exiled from his prestigious post to a small college in far western Xinjiang), and avoiding terror only in the most extreme cases.  The general topics include a number of artfully chose case studies which diligently illustrate the author's theses about the CCP's involvement, attitude, and adaption at all levels of society.  Interesting and helpful analogies are made to various similar institutions in western societies, mainly the UK and the US, such as the tendency of key corporate executives to circulate in government or as advisors in law firms, and help regulate the very industries from which they emerge.  In addition, specific topics only glossed over generally in the press in recent years--SARS, the Sanlu poisoned milk scandal, the bid by CNOOC for Unocal--receive detailed treatment and situates these discrete events in a larger context.Still, one difficulty of the book is a limitation of journalism.  The CCP is not a monolithic, autonomous institution, but one rather situated in history and culture.  At some points, the CCP's anxieties are gestured at, for example, the author speculates that Hu Jintao is probably more concerned with a riot in Yunnan than the goings-on in the U.S. Senate.  A reason this is the case is that there is a theme of centripetal control by the center, as well as centrifugal forces diffusing power to the provinces.  This is hinted at, but could be more explicit--on the other hand, another 'theme' of Chinese history--that of foreign invasion--is well illustrated in a number of cases which animate the Party's concern, for example in periodic Japan-bashing.  This is not a great problem, but demonstrates the limits of a journalist in relating events which might be best understood with the broader brush of the historian.  The author also cannot escape his own biases in presenting an unflattering portrait of Mao and capping the book with a suggestive chapter entitled 'Tombstone,' even as he points out that China will likely continue to pursue its own course, and, indeed, inspire the world, independent of western modes of critique.  The author is very forthright in exposing his own prediction that the Party would collapse with the 'freedom' of capitalism, which has so far been frustrated.  Finally, this is such a vast subject that the book feels more like an executive summary, and could have been fleshed out with much more detail, but of course readability would have suffered as a result.On the whole, the Party is a supple and wise balance sheet of contemporary Chinese politics understood through the keen antennae of a Financial Times journalist, attuned to nuance, and always ready with a telling anecdote.  I recommend it not only as a study of the modern CCP, but also as a model of how books of this type should be written which embrace similar subjects.