The American Mantra of Democracy Promotion Abroad is Just not Going to Fly China is an incredibly lucky country, and deservedly so. The basis of modern wealth creation, industrial manufacturing processes, which can take many decades to master, was handed over to China when the Western countries set up shop there. This scenario has had an unfortunate consequence for America, resulting in a tremendous decrease in the percentage of the population employed in industry. And for China, it went in the opposite direction. Admittedly, China lags behind America in high-end manufacturing, but not for long, given its patent acquisition and scientific publishing pace.Thanks to the author, one learns fascinating new insights about China’s rise and its grand strategy to “displace” America. The communist party, we understand, was a vehicle for China’s nationalist aspirations. But its leaders are not about to kick the ladder away.The author notes that America survived four waves of declinism only to emerge stronger. During the first three waves, America still had a large percentage of the population employed in the industrial sector. Although the fourth wave saw reduced employment levels in the sector, according to the author, America’s mastery of information technology helped its reemergence.There is concern that America has become less than enterprising in dealing with debilitating challenges such as the one posed by violent Islamists. America’s “War on Terror” has already cost over five trillion dollars by some estimates, with no end in sight, whereas China is attempting to divest Islamist ideology of its Uygur minorities and "integrate" them through “illiberal” tactics.As pointed out by the author, America is in the middle of its fifth wave of declinism. He is right not to write America off, just as one should not write China off in its quest either. In the long run, this competition may come down to the wealth differential between the two.I think the author failed to appreciate what the China “model” of civilizational progress entails. Under the authoritarian communism, China homogenized the society, fed its people, and educated them well, and when the manufacturing opportunity came, China was ready. In comparison, under democracy, the equally populous India has largely failed to do the above, including achieving a solid and diverse economic growth, and is now beset by divisions and insurgencies thanks to a heterogeneous society.China is likely to become more democratized regardless of the ruling regimes’ restraining attempts if history is any indication. It is only natural that the empowered people want to have a say in how they are being governed. We have seen this happen in Taiwan, South Korea, and Singapore, which achieved sustained wealth creation under authoritarian regimes and, much later, became functional democracies.It is important to grasp that achieving a functional democracy from the ground up requires more than free elections; it requires sustained wealth creation first. This may be a tough pill to swallow: increasingly, the American mantra of democracy promotion abroad is just not going to fly, and China is succeeding in talking up its model – you only have to read what the prime minister, Imran Khan, of Pakistan said on July 3, 2021.Well, the author has helped me find a front seat to witness this fascinating competition.