The Great Game today This week I've been thinking about the current Hong Kong street protests while also reading the latest Pentagon policies about the new battlefield of the "Indo-Pacific" theatre which names Communist China as an enemy for trade and world influence.  And, today I finished reading Bradley's book which makes a case that FDR raised with childhood fantasies about China and Japan helped to speed events leading directly to the Pearl Harbor attack, the Korean and Vietnam wars, as well as, I'd argue, some of the current mess between the USA and China today.China expands its borders by building new South China Sea islands. It rattles its sabers again at Hong Kong and Taiwan. It says to the USA if you are not nice to us in trade power games, we'll cozy up to Russia.  China and the USA are playing an ever more expensive game of cat & mouse with ships, submarines, missiles, and aircraft.  China still supports the continued existence of its buffer state of North Korea against threats it sees from its historic enemies (or tributary states) of Korea and Japan which both have many American offensive military bases a short flight away from China.As other reviewers have said, this book has some careless typos such as the type of aircraft which firebombed Japan to a biased silence on the horrors of Mao's Cultural Revolution and his silence on the roll of the Japanese military-industrial zaibatsus - funded in large part by Wall Street - before and after WWII which I'd agrue caused Pearl Harbor more than any of Teddy Roosevelt's or FDR's China fantasies. But, the book does raise some new perspectives on US/China history worthy of being read today.It is chilling to read this book and compare the escalating Pacific Rim events of today with how FDR in Washington DC so badly misunderstood China having been completely seduced by his childhood fantasies of China so well explained by Bradley.  It is also chilling to know from Mr. Bradley so much about the USA's policies and actions in Asia, especially those from 1945 -1950 are still classified about funds flowing to Chiang Kai-shek just as many details are still classified about how the Japanese imperial family and the military-industrial zaibatsus were able to loot with impunity so much gold and other treasure from the many countries Japan conquered with the active help of the USA and Switzerland after the WWII fighting ended so the Free World could fight the Evil Communists.WWII is still not over for the US and China.  They don't yet trust each other to tell each other the time of day.  Too much old baggage and old secrets.  Too much Great Game squabbling.Now we have Mr. Trump instead of FDR and a new Chinese president-for-life like Putin clinging to his precarious one-party power like the old corrupt Chinese emperors or the doomed Russian tzars while the Japanese zaibatsus still run their own country as they did on December 7, 1941.  I hope Mr. Tump will declassify all the USA's secrets from Teddy Roosevalt's day til the end of the Viet Nam war so we can all see how we really got where we are today on the Pacific Rim.