How did they do that? I grew up with the specter of "Red China" and all of the 1960s fear and sensationalism that went along with any discussion of communism. Then, as I grew older and more sophisticated (as did the world in general), and after I spent a summer in Hong Kong and had a chance to become acquainted with some mainland Chinese, I began to see that today's China is much more complex than many of us realize. Certainly the People's Republic deserves criticism for its dismal human rights record and its lack of personal freedoms. But you've got to hand it to a government that can lead a nation of 1 billion from Third World poverty to the world's second largest economy in 40 years. The question that kept nagging at me as I read and learned more about the PRC is, how exactly did they do that? Moreover, how do they continue to maintain control of all those people now that the population is mobile, has money and, courtesy of the internet, is able to access more information than ever before, the Great Firewall notwithstanding?The answer, according to this fascinating book, is by controlling personnel. The party weaves an iron bond between itself and the government by controlling all of the key government appointments in the nation. Through an entity called, innocuously, the Central Organization Department, the Communist Party of China is responsible for human resources. That may sound like mere bureaucracy, but in reality it means that the party penetrates every state body in the nation, along with a few private ones. As author Richard MacGregor explains, a comparable body in Washington, DC would appoint the entire federal cabinet, state governors and their deputies, mayors of all major cities, heads of all regulatory agencies, the justices of the Supreme Court and the heads of all major media organizations, such as The New York Times, Wall Street Journal, the Washington Post and heads of the TV, radio and cable networks. It would also control who was appointed to head ExxonMobil, Wal-Mart and other major corporations, as well as the presidents of big universities like Harvard and Yale and the heads of major foundations and think tanks, such as Heritage and Brookings. Plus, all of those appointments would be done in secret.Put in context like that, it is easy to see why the Chinese system is very, very dangerous, and why its principals -- a group of a dozen or so senior party officials -- are smart, powerful and very scary. And it certainly begs the question, at what price comes economic development?There is much more in this revealing, well-written book, but if this bit about the Central Organization department doesn't pique your interest, nothing will. I highly recommend The Party to anyone who wants to know more about China today, and what it is likely to look like tomorrow.