Credible, Objective and Very Helpful Author Rudd, former Prime Minister of Australia, is well qualified to opine on both the U.S. and China. His background includes majoring in Mandarin and Chinese history, living in Beijing, Hong Kong and Taipei, meeting top Chinese leaders, and having also lived in the U.S. for many years. In the first chapter Rudd points out that detailed analyses of 16 encounters between rising and established powers over the past 500 years found that war was probable but not certain (12 times); thus, hope of escaping the Thucydides Trap.China's hostility to the American ideal is grounded in the view that the American concept of freedom represents a continuing existential threat to the political legitimacy of the CCP within China, more so than at any time in its history - aside from 1989. There is also a resentment of former racism/condescension vs. Asians, and the feeling that now they can do something about this - part of a unifying nationalism and ideology for Chinese who are NOT CCP members that has been focus-tested and potentially more nationally-mobilizing than Mao Zedong Thought previously. The 2008 Financial Crisis diminished faith in Western capitalism. (Previously Deng restored that in his famous Southern Trip after Tiananmen.)Currently, nationalism dominates thinking in China (formerly contributing 40% of world GDP) and the U.S. about the other; overall, China's understanding of the U.S. far greater than our understanding of China. Americans fear the loss of influence to China via its economic success and growing military - forgetting that the former is inevitable, and the latter is connected to China's having been humiliated previously by European nations and the U.S. in the Opium Wars, subjected to cruel rule by Japan for a number of years, and incurred political turmoil/revolution as a result of prior failure to repel these incursions. The U.S. was involved in the Opium Wars, the Boxer Rebellion against foreigners - the U.S. sent troops to help oppose, became hated as hypocritic after failing to support China's full relief from Japan/German WWI intrusions per Wilson's '14 Points,' our equivocal support during early Russian incursions in the 20th century, and full-blown threats against mainland China in defense of Taiwan.Eventually relations greatly improved in 1979 after Nixon's visit to China - China saw it as a temporary means of defense against the Soviets (the 1991 domestic implosion of Soviet Communism eliminated China's concern about Soviet attacks and restored it as a source of advanced weaponry) , while the U.S. had hoped China would become more liberal, but limited its ability to sell weapons to Iran, Pakistan and North Korea. NATO's intervention in the Balkans (considered under Russia's sphere of influence) during the 1990s cemented China's turn away from Washington - especially after U.S. guided missiles struck the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade in 1999.China has also become much more vulnerable to blockade of its energy sources, and therefore similarly sensitive on that topic --> construction of a Blue Water Navy. Another key point of comparison - China has proven much more willing to learn from others than the U.S. vs. China. CCP leaders, especially under Xi Jinping, concluded China now had more in common with Russia than the U.S. - investment, trade and U.S. universities notwithstanding. Bush I and Clinton muted Tiananmen concerns, still hoping additional trade would bring liberalization. This helped rebuild CCP credibility in the economic arena, and resentment of China in the U.S.Bush II early on identified China as a significant emerging threat to American interests, but that was soon sidelined by 9/11 which sapped America's prestige, financial strength, and military status - benefitting China. Then came the Global Financial Crisis of 2008-09, further diminishing U.S. prestige and economic recommendations, along with the 2008 Beijing Olympics - boosting China's prestige and credibility.By 2012, Obama announced a strategic shift to Asia that included strengthening military alliances and an effort to form a Trans-Pacific Partnership (12 nations, excluding China). China took umbrage at both initiatives.Americans typically believe it's approach to China has been driven by high ideals in defense of democracy, free trade, and the integrity of global rules-based order. China's view of America's strategy is that it is simply the prosecution of its core national interest, and that pretending otherwise is hypocrisy. CCP-created problems such as the Great Leap Forward and the Cultural Revolution, along with an increasingly self-confident private sector, rising expectations of the middle class, and the rise of Buddhism and Christianity (from 22 million members in 2010 to 38 million in 2020 - perhaps as many as 100 million) also unsettle the CCP. Then there has been American NGOs acting as foreign 'black hands' behind Tiananmen and Hong Kong. The U.S. is also seen a repeatedly trampling on Confucian traditions (saving time), at the expense of Chinese pride/tradition.Beijing, on its part, has abandoned Mao's attempts to help overthrow governments for ideological reasons, while noting the inconsistencies with which the U.S. targets/ignores others in the name of democratic principles (eg. Iraq, Syria, and Libya, vs. Saudi Arabia, Israel). The U.S. Monroe Doctrine is cited by China as a form of U.S. colonialism - and contrasted with the U.S. now opposing illegitimate China's influence in Asia.The Xinjiang Uyghur Region has been the object of security concern in China and drawn the attention of the outside world. An Islamic separatist movement within Xinjiang had long sought independence from China - with acts of terrorism in other parts of China as well as in Xinjiang. Ethnic riots between Han settlers and Uyghurs occurred in 2009, leading to a new part secretary in the region and a strategy of economic development. In March 2014, Xinjiang-linked terrorists attacked a Kunming railway station, killing 31 and injuring over 140. Soon village-based work teams were ordered to visit each household in their jurisdiction to identify radical elements and begin 'educational transformation' work. TThey concluded up to 30% were infected with extremist thought and required 'concentrated and forceful educational dredging work.' Another new party secretary was appointed. Police and paramilitary troops were placed at checkpoints every few hundred feet in Urumqi (capital), thousands of 'convenience police stations' and facial recognition software were also installed. By 2017, a directive went out to use 'concentrated educational transformation centers' to manage 'key groups.' Reports also emerged by 2020 claiming large-scale 'population control' measures' were being enforced - forced abortions and involuntary sterilization of Uyghur women.June 2021, 76% of Americans had a negative opinion of China's government, partly fomented by the government's deliberate opacity --> distrust of everything the CCP says. The Chinese, under Xi, furthered this by making deceptive claims regarding man-made and natural islands in the Pacific. Other examples included trade practices - eg. government support, espionage.