Challenges many beliefs Cordell Hull is shown to be very careful,  but he missed a meeting of the minds with his Japanese counterpart. The Japanese showed bad judgement In posting an ambassador to the United States who was not fluent in English. All of this is happening at a time when neither the US nor Japan could risk a misinterpretation of the other's message. On the other hand, China's Nationalists were marketing wizards. They were educated in the best US Universities and knew how to use the Christianity card to their advantage. The prize for the American Christians was both the  Americanization and the conversion of China, notwithstanding the existence of the Exclusion Act! The problem was the people who were responsible for executing in China were kleptomaniacs, stealing from the U.S and exploiting their own people. However, their pitch was so captivating, they convinced both the religious and political elite to support their cause, even though there were strong contrary head-winds .So what! It was a major factor in Japan's decision to attack Pearl Harbor. The Chinese lobby made an embargo of oil and the freezing of assets viable. You have to read the book to see how it was cleverly done. Hint: the President was away meeting Churchill, the Secretary of State on vacation and three very smart Ivy League hires used the power vacuum to implement the restrictions. When the decision-makers returned, they faced a fait accompli which they couldn't reverse since Japan, as a result of it's outrageous conduct in China, lost the moral high ground.The book unfurled an intricate web of money and power. Unfortunately,  the Nationalists were using other people's money (U.S)  to amass their power. So successful were they at their game, the U.S became blind to any counterpoint. This becomes a tragedy in history leading the U.S to bet the house on the wrong horse. There were repeated overtures by Mao to befriend the U.S but because of this powerful influence, all initiatives were rebuffed. This lead to almost thirty years of hostile relations between the U.S and China. The rhetorical question is: if we had normal relations with China, could the wars in Korea and Vietnam have been avoided?Finally, the reader will be surprised to learn the identity of some of the patrician families whose fortune was at least partially attributive to the opium business.  These dope dealers diversified their ill-gotten gains into legitimate businesses which provided the foundation for their prestige in American society.  I recommend The China Mirage because it gives a credible  Asian historical perspective to many contemporary events in today's world of  politics.