American History in the Pacific - Dominated by Enormous Misperceptions America is the world's largest developed country and China the largest developing country. It is inevitable that they will bump into each other. However, author Bradley believes both nations are massively uninformed about the other. Bradley's book summarizes American errors in Asia, driven by a mirage.China had once been the richest country on earth. Unfortunately, it saw foreign visitors as 'foreign devils,' second-class humans desperate for Chinese knowledge and goods. Then, in the late 17th-century, the English began importing massive quantities of Chinese tea. However, the Chinese wanted few English products and, and thus accumulated great amounts of European wealth. During the 17th-century, China's population tripled from about 100 million to over 300 million.Eventually, the British devised a way to reduce this trade deficit - bribing officials to allow chests of opium from British-ruled India (one million Indian opium farmers) entry into China. Chinese authorities became alarmed at the ensuing epidemic, seized vast stocks of opium and dumped them into the sea, thereby setting the stage for the Opium War. (Britain wanted full compensation for the opium.) The result, China was forced to open five ports to foreign traders and allow a British colony at Hong Kong. By 1850, opium accounted for 15 - 20 percent of England's revenues, and credited by some as essential to Britain's survival. One of the Americans profiting greatly was Warren Delano, grandfather of FDR.Japan built a military-industrial complex in response to Admiral Perry and his demands, and then used that might to conquer China. Previously, Teddy Roosevelt had allowed Japan to acquire Korea as a means of keeping the Russians out.By 1838, American missionaries insisted on the right to be left alone while proselyting Chinese citizens. The 'mirage' referred to in the book's title was that China was 'a great nation whose citizens traditionally regarded Americans as their best friends.' This led the U.S. into needless provocation of Japan (eg. embargo of Japanese steel and oil as a penalty for war with China) that precipitated Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor.  America's #1 author in the 1930s (Pearl Buck), along with its #1 publisher (Henry Luce - Time magazine) contended that if we'd just give a little more money to China it would be Christianized and democratized. Pictures of Chiang Kai-shek reading the Bible, as well as stories of him reading the bible an hour/day helped reinforce those dreams. Mao Zedong popped them.FDR saw that continuing to supply Japan with oil would prevent them from attacking south to acquire other sources. However, while in Canada attending a summit, his deputies sabotaged that directive with a myriad of bureaucratic delays. Roosevelt found out about a month later, then decided not to risk a public relations backlash from resuming oil shipments. That was Sept. of 1941; the China Lobby had convinced most that Japan would never attack the U.S.. Pearl Harbor was attacked by six Japanese aircraft carriers that left port 11/26/1941. Hawaii's commanding Army general and Navy admiral hardly had spoken to each other up to that point.Japan's plan was not to invade the U.S., but simply to prevent its navy from interfering in their quest elsewhere for oil and supplies. Experts have concluded the U.S. made a grave blunder by allowing an issue not vital to its basic interests (China) to become a keystone policy issue; that was aided by a mirage perpetrated by the China Lobby that, with a little aid, Chiang Kai-Shek could push the Japanese out of China. Reality, he did very little - preferring to either steal U.S. funds or hoard the supplies for a civil war with Mao after the Japanese were defeated. Had our support at least continued longer, would have avoided a two-front war for the U.S.; had we not been so scared of Mao (Communist), the author contends there would not have been a Chinese civil war, Korean War, or Vietnam War. (Chiang had been elected by 90 leaders of a single party - bogus claim to representation.)Americans also didn't know the U.S. had violated international law by secretly equipping and supplying a small air force in China to attack Japan. (It never accomplished much.)'Who lost China?' became the big purge post-WWII, resulting in the experienced Asia hands who knew reality being purged out. Hence, we repeated the error vs. Vietnam.