Decay and Evolution This is a really fascinating account of the current state of China and the Chinese Communist Party. Too often, accounts of China in the West take a surface view of this burgeoning economy and assume that development must, in many ways, rely on the economic, if not social, models of the West, particularly after the demise of Russian communism. This relatively short book paints a far more subtle, nuanced and inclusive picture of a country and it's ruling party as both 'decaying and evolving' in the face of internal and external challenges.In eight clearly defined chapters, McGregor considers 'The Party and the State', 'The Party and Business', 'The Party and Personnel', 'The Party and the Gun', 'The Party and Corruption', 'The Party and the Regions', 'The Party and Capitalism' and 'The Party and History'. What comes across is a picture of a ruling central organisation that is ubiquitous, fragile, subtle and, at the same time, hugely adaptable. The Party is not synonymous with the government, nor the state. 'The Party', as the quote at the beginning of Chapter 1 says 'is like God. He is everywhere. You just can't see him'. It has survived horrendous famines, the Cultural Revolution, Tienanmen Square and, so far, many of the vicissitudes assailing Western economies. How it has managed this, and how it may continue to do so for some time to come, is laid out in each chapter as Mr McGregor takes a core element of Chinese society and investigates it's relationship to the Party, using an illuminating mixture of history, example and anecdote.Many western investors in Chinese businesses assume that China is, in some sense, becoming a capitalist society, but this is to completely miss the intimate relationship between the Party and all levels of the economy. It is assumed that China's state-run sector will suffer the same fate as such enterprises in Russia, but this is to miss both the flexibility of the organisation and the readiness to learn from the mistakes of others. It is far from perfect, of course, but it is more open to change, as long as this change is supervised and sanctioned by the Party, than many Western commentators realise.Overall, what comes across is both, in some ways, rather admirable and Orwellian. But the point is continually made that anyone who thinks that China is simply adopting a Western 'free market' strategy is seriously mistaken - the role and actions of the Party remain central. Again, the Party can both 'decay and evolve'.