A Grim Portrait of the American Elite “This book paints a grim portrait of the American elite,” writes Peter Schweizer. “I am often accused of creating despair because I expose the corruption of America’s leaders… This is without a doubt the most troubling book that I have written.”Some of it is well known by those who follow Schweizer on TV commentary and have read his previous books CLINTON CASH and PROFILES IN CORRUPTION.  For example, the allegation that most of the Biden Family’s wealth derives from the $31 million Schweizer says was paid to Biden’s son and brother through arms of the Chinese government, including its spy agencies and People’s Liberation Army. Likewise, he alleges that the husbands of Senator Diane Feinstein and Nancy Pelosi have made tens of millions running “a myriad of firms and partnerships” in China --- from Communist Party money funds to limousine companies.He doesn’t neglect to scrutinize Republicans. He says Senator Mitch McConnell has acquired the lion’s share of his wealth from his father-in-law (the father of his wife Elaine Chao) a Taiwanese billionaire who builds ships for China’s government. As has former Republican Speaker of the House John Boehner, who lobbies Congress on behalf of the Chinese government and its military arms. As has former diplomatic war horses Henry Kissinger and Condoleezza Rice who Schweizer says lobby Congress for permission to transfer America’s most sensitive technologies to the Chinese Army. As have some of Trump’s former Cabinet members who were supposed to be helping Trump confront China. And many in the Bush family, including George H.W. Bush, his brother Prescott Bush, his son Neil Bush (also heavily involved in domestic banking controversies), and did Jeb Bush, whose short-lived 2016 campaign Schweizer alleges was partially funded by agents of the Chinese government.He says most tech titans --- from Liberals like Jack Dorsey and Bill Gates to the Libertarian Elon Musk --- are praising China’s government in hopes of profiteering from its market. That goes for most every prominent person in Wall Street finance, academia, and sports and entertainment, and government bureaucracies who seek Chinse payola by facilitating Chinese government infiltration of our economy.“America is in a grim position,” Schweizer concludes. “Beijing’s effort at ‘elite capture’ appears to be working spectacularly. We have exposed how elites, from Washington to Wall Street, from Silicon Valley to academe, have been coopted and are helping the regime while in some cases even bolstering China’s military and intelligence complex. But there are very real things we can do to fight back.”Before reading this book, I would have said that the United States still has a fighting chance to maintain parity with China as a superpower duopoly. Now I am not so sure. China is a monolithic entity of government, business, espionage, and police state sheltering under the umbrella of the Chinese Communist Party. He paints the United States (correctly, I think) as a cacophony of money-grubbing private interests, mostly loyal to Chinese payola and craving to impose a similar dictatorship to stifle dissent among the American public.He holds out a somewhat forlorn hope that there are still a few prominent Americans who he says are properly skeptical of China’s government. Some are Republicans like President Donald Trump and Senators Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz, Rand Paul. Some are Democrats like Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Senators Joe Manchin, Mark Warner, and Chris Coons. We will need a lot more of those people to stop the transfer of jobs, wealth, and technology to the Chinese Communist Party and its affiliate operations in the military, espionage, and civil government agencies. He concludes on the pessimistic view that:“One can only assume that those who refuse to accurately see it have other motives. As muckraker and novelist Upton Sinclair reminds us, ‘It is difficult to get a man to understand something when his salary depends on his not understanding it.’”I’m likewise wondering what it will take to break our elites from their love affair with China’s money (formerly Americans’ money transferred to China in trade deficits) and China’s dictatorship. Maybe another Great Recession, an act of overt aggression by China against Taiwan and our Pacific bases, or maybe another president who understands the danger as much as Trump did, but can stay better focused on it.