" I am or was struck by the Wise Men in these policies and wonder what is so wise about men so stupid and hubris in their polici It seems to me that our foreign policy is largely based on mirages and our reaction to whatever results a lot from these mirages presented to the public and our "leaders."  I am or was struck by the Wise Men in these policies and wonder what is so wise about men so stupid and hubris in their policies ans suggestions as to what to do next. They may be wise but they do not seem to have the intelligence to use their intelligence wisely, letting their arrogance get the best of their intelligence which should suggest better choices. I finished reading THE CHINA MIRAGE The Hidden History  Of American Disaster In Asia a few nights ago. It explains a lot of what I would call our blunderbuss foreign policy throughout the history of our nation. One definition, as I found in my dictionary defines blunderbuss as clumsy ans stupid. This does not say much about the people who elect them, but then they are so easily duped and lacking in initiative to act otherwise. The domino theory could be well applied to our foreign policies that lead to one blunder after another blunder in support of American Exceptionalism that is so much a part of the tragedy of America's foreign policy used as an excuse for the concept of manifest destiny.This is story of cause and effect by arrogant people who refuse to see and deny and only act upon the facade put before them, not making the effort to look beyond the facade and listen tho those who knew better and had more knowledge of the real China, not the public relations designed to put forth the best, the lies and the fantasy of the best foot forward.  We seem to want to live in a world were imperialism is justified and glorified, as with the British and other empires of the past and now the American Empire and shun and condemned those who know otherwise.  Our nation is living on myths, not reality, of fantasy instead of the reality of facts. Neither China nor Iran has ever attacked us, nor has Russia ever really been the threat it has been made out to be, even in the Cold War era. The United States has been the aggressor, making enemies along the way, making terrorists as we go along with our blunderbuss forging policies that only seem to perpetuate the war machines and the profiteers.THE CHINA MIRAGE is a well written and researched book. I thank James Bradley for that.  The last sentence, on the last page says a lot about our leaders,their failures and our failures to rise up against them. As you write"America has dispatched it hopeful sons and daughters to faraway Asia in search of a mirage that never was. And never will be."