Very good read -- but left many unanswered questions Overall, this book is worth reading.  I have read everything James Bradley has written and if you've read anything by him you'll enjoy his consistent writing style in "The China Mirage".  He is able to capture characters, circumstances, and events in a way that turns history into page-turning action.  This book covered U.S. interactions with China from Teddy Roosevelt to Franklin Roosevelt to Harry Truman, explaining how our misperception of what we thought first Japan (as described in Bradley's book, "Imperial Cruise") and then China should be and not necessarily what they were.  His descriptions of the China Lobby, the limited interaction of the average American with anyone from Southeast Asia, and the personalities that sold us a China that did not exist kept the pages turning and make it worth the read.However, I did have a couple of significant issues with what I read.  First, the book did an excellent job of describing our interactions with China in the early 20th century, but then made a giant leap in the end to blame both the Korean and Vietnam Wars on our early misinterpretations of China.  While the logic is credible, the book fell short explaining the specific events in China that led to those future wars with significant writing ending the China discussion at the end of World War II.  I don't feel like the explanation was wrong, it was just lacking.Secondly, throughout the book Bradley painted Mao Zedong in such a brilliant light, and Chiang Kai-shek so negatively, which was obvious in their leadership styles and the eventual outcome in China.  What was missing was the fact that while Mao was clearly the better leader, where he was leading the people to wasn't accounted for, as proven by the eventual and current atrocities and failures of the Communist system of government in China.  After a while I found it distracting to continually read about how Mao's more effective leadership was moving the people in a direction that they would eventually regret.  Part of the discussion was intended to show (as restated in the conclusion) that had the U.S. engaged better with Mao, China may have followed a different path.  But the discussion became overstated and tedious without addressing the problem-fraught future of a Communist China.The biggest problem that I had with this book, which was obviously well-researched and well cited, was a somewhat mind-blowing error from a professional author.  On page 330 of the Little, Brown, and Company published version of the book, Bradley describes the firebombing of Tokyo in March of 1945.  Twice on the page Bradley writes that "B-52s" based on various Pacific islands were the aircraft that conducted the raids.  Unfortunately, the first Boeing B-52 Stratofortress flight didn't take place until April 1952, just over 7 years after the bombing described.  The primary U.S. heavy bomber in the Pacific during WWII, as any amateur historian should be able to identify, was the Boeing B-29 Superfortress, the same aircraft as the Enola Gay used to drop the first atomic bomb on Hiroshima later in 1945.  With so much other in-depth information in the book, an amateur mistake like that makes the rest of the book a little suspect, and is a direct indictment of the editing begging the question as to whether the entire book went to press a little too early to flush out all of the arguments.With all of those relatively minor concerns aside, I really enjoyed this in-depth analysis of the U.S.' initial modern-day development with China.  The writing style was engaging, the arguments rational, and the details interesting.  I was expecting more of a tie-in from the end of Chiang Kai-Shek's dictatorship to how we got to where we are in U.S.-China relations today.  Instead, Bradley chose to hit the fast-forward button around 1950 from which point I was able to pick up a couple of further arguments requiring me to hit the "I believe" button to support the conclusions in the final chapter.  I can see where what Bradley describes in detail throughout the book could have resulted in where we are today, but the book fell short in getting me there.