The title is a total understatement! You can call me Henny Penny, but as far as I'm concerned by virtue of this book, the sky has already fallen. I'm only just starting chapter 4 (thankfully I had a free Audible book credit) and my head has exploded multiple times. I expected the chapter on the Bidens, but the one on Capitol Hill was dreadfully mind blowing. A huge number of former and current senators and House members are lobbying for China! Including my own conservative former Florida Congressman Cliff Stearns!!!! A Christian! If Feinstein isn't a Communist, she is a Sell-Out of the highest order going back to the 70s as mayor of San Francisco. The Swamp is no joke! McConnell is at least a Chinese sympathizer through his wife Elaine Chou and her father and sister, heads of a CCP shipbuilding company!!!Schweizer has done voluminous documentation. The acronyms beginning with the letter C are constant and quickly blur into oblivion which is what my brain feels like. You may consider yourself an informed conservative (or an honest liberal) but you are NOT! Anyone who has not read this book is completely uninformed because no American could ever imagine that so many of our elected leaders are on the take to the tune of hundreds of thousands and millions of dollars (meticulously documented BTW.) Please do yourself a favor even though it will be cognitively painful, and read this book and pass it on. Pass it on to your senator and congressman if for no other reason than to inform him/her that you are onto them and will take appropriate action at the polls in 2022 and 2024 including supporting primary challengers of incumbent Republicans unless they speak out against this rampant corruption to rat it out to the American public which this book has basically done if anyone will read it. But now, in order to save their political butts, elected Republicans and Democrats need to get on board loudly.Of course, if you don't choose to read this book, as far as I'm concerned, you are useful idiots of the CCP. Yes that's strong language, but our military members have taken on America's defense at risk of life and limb; the least patriotic Americans can do is read a book!!!I DARE you to read this book and not be astonished and outraged by the CORRUPTION that DC lives and breathes in. The title is a total understatement!