Riveting. Infuriating. We should have known all this already! You know that feeling you get when you learn something you didn't already know, then realize you SHOULD have known it before? You'll get that feeling a lot as you read this riveting book.Everyone should know by now that the big Wall Street firms -- like Goldman Sachs and Blackrock -- have sold out to the Chinese already. Of course they have; there's a lot of money to be made there.Everyone should know by now that the Big Tech titans have sold out, too. They want eyeballs to make money, and more money to attract more eyeballs.Everyone should know by now that Joe Biden's family has been in bed with the People's Republic for more than a decade, and Joe's son Hunter and his brothers Frank and James have been the bagmen for the Biden family when Hunter isn't otherwise engaged in hookers and blow, or in his newfound career as an "artiste."Everyone should know by now that Harvard and many other major universities in this country have prostituted themselves in pursuit of Chinese "endowment" money that comes with an unspoken pledge to censor what the Chinese Communists don't want students to hear or to learn.Everyone should know by now that American politicians can be bought or bought off by new business opportunities that benefit their children or their cronies.But it still does a body good to survey the damage, to see the details, and to get that "I should have known this" feeling from this important and timely book.Why is it important? Because China is rapidly reaching the point where they will overtake the US as the predominant superpower in the world. If you don't think a bloodthirsty, dictatorial, communist regime ought to be setting the rules for the civilized world, you had better make your opinion known and acquire the knowledge to help you root out the problem and call China's American helpers out. The truth is, the Chinese can't do it without their help.Why is it timely? Because if you have been paying attention you have seen lots of examples of powerful Americans who suddenly can't bring themselves to notice the Chinese genocide against the Uyghur minority. China is literally exterminating its own citizens, by sterilizing them, imprisoning them in concentration camps, or farming them out as forced labor to companies who make things like that iPhone you can't get out of your hand.Facebook's founder Mark Zuckerberg asking President Xi, China's goon-in-chief, to give his unborn daughter her "Chinese name" at a White House state dinner in 2014 is something even I didn't expect to read. But he did it. It's all here in this book. The aptly named Larry Fink, CEO of Blackrock, has been betting your money on China for years. Even Jamie Dimon, the CEO of JPMorgan Chase, the biggest, baddest firm on Wall Street, cowers in fear of hurting their feelings.You know about LeBron James already, I'm sure. You probably remember the obsequious NBA disowning the coach of the Houston Rockets for daring to tweet (tweet!) about the repression of Hong Kong by the ChiComs. You know why? Because they afraid to lose broadcast rights, or money from licensed merch in China. That's here, too, for good measure. I hope they choke on those sneakers.But you will learn how the Chinese have gotten these timid titans to kiss their bottoms. It is the work of years of effort, relationship building, and subtle intimidation. They are masters at it, and the US is their masterpiece.Peter Schweizer's book is straightforward and factual. He writes without fussiness and this book is well paced and very well edited. My main reaction when I finished the penultimate chapter was "We are so screwed!" But his concluding chapter offers ways that Americans can fight back by recognizing what China is doing and making it harder to keep doing it. If we don't, they will continue to ratchet up the pressure on those people, and on the businesses and institutions Schweizer names, and we will all be powerless to stop them.