Probably a very realistic assessment of the Chinese government and economy. I thought it was a hard-headed, probably realistic assessment of the Chinese government and economy.  The author, Frank Dikotter, argues that the Chinese economic growth over the past 30+ years has been sustained almost entirely by a mountain of debt. The total debt incurred by the national and provincial governments is probably around 200% of the country’s GDP. Most of this debt is held my state-owned banks. It is likely that much of it can never be repaid.  By conventional US or Western European financial standards, these banks are insolvent. The only way the Chinese  financial system can survive, at least temporarily, is by the government ordering the banks not to demand payment of the loans.Dikotter also comments on the Chinese government. He describes the history of the Chinese political leadership from Mao through the present system. The idea that China is moving toward a democratic system is a western figment of the imagination, he claims.Dikotter also offers much commentary on the disastrous “Great Leap Forward” of 1958 - 1961 or so, the Cultural Revolution of the 1960s and early 1970s, and the Tiananmen Square massacre of June 1989.Dikotter describes a Chinese economic system that is much less free-enterprise than I have read elsewhere. I am not an expert on this subject so I do not know what might be correct. It just seems to me that there must be a fairly high degree of encouraged (or at least tolerated) capitalism for a fairly high technology - level economy to grow and prosper. Dikotter argues that most of the Chinese economic miracle exists only in the coastal cities and economic zones and that the hinterlands are still very poor.A couple of books that offer different interpretations and analyses of the Chinese government and especially the Chinese economy are:*  “China’s Economy: What Everyone Needs to Know” (2016) by Kroeber;*  “Has China Won? The Chinese Challenge to American Primacy” (2020) by Mahbubani.